{"courseId": "MSE-440", "name": "Composites technology", "description": "The latest developments in processing and the novel generations of organic composites are discussed. Nanocomposites, adaptive composites and biocomposites are presented. Product development, cost analysis and study of new markets are practiced in team work. Content Basics of composite materialsConstituentsProcessing of compositesDesign of composite structures\u00a0Current developmentNanocomposites Textile compositesBiocompositesAdaptive composites\u00a0ApplicationsDriving forces and marketsCost analysisAerospaceAutomotiveSport Keywords Composites - Applications - Nanocomposites - Biocomposites - Adaptive composites - Design - Cost Learning Prerequisites Required courses Notion of polymers Recommended courses Polymer Composites Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Propose suitable design, production and performance criteria for the production of a composite partApply the basic equations for process and mechanical properties modelling for composite materialsDiscuss the main types of composite applications Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsCommunicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback. Teaching methods Ex cathedra and invited speakers Group sessions with exercises or work on the project Expected student activities Attendance at lectures Design of a composite part, bibliography search \u00a0 Assessment methods Written exam report and oral presentation in class"}
{"courseId": "BIO-695", "name": "Image Processing for Life Science", "description": "This course intends to teach image processing with a strong emphasis of applications in life sciences. The idea is to enable the participants to solve image processing questions via workflows independently. Content Over the last decades, the images arising from microscopes in Life Sciences went from being a qualitative support of scientific evidence to a quantitative resource. To obtain good quality data from digital images, be it from a photograph of a Western blot, a TEM slice or a multi-channel confocal time-lapse stack, scientists must understand the underlying processes leading to the extracted information. Of similar importance is the software used to obtain the data. This course makes use of the ImageJ (FIJI package) as well as other open-source tools to ensure maximum reproducibility and protocol transfer of the analysis pipelines. The course will span 14 weeks with 1h30 of lecture per week, as well as exercises to complete outside of the course and will enable to students to establish image analysis workflows autonomously. Note This course is open to max. 16 students selected by the organizer. This 14-week course aims to introduce students to digital image analysis in the context of life sciences. We will cover the following topics:- Digital image data representations, formats, metadata- Image manipulation- Macro and script creation- Filtering, linear, non-linear, morphological- Segmentation- Regions of interest- Image stitching- Image visualisation- Data extraction and representation- Image deconvolution and denoising- Machine learning Each topic will have a strong emphasis on good practices and will be followed by exercises to be handed out at the next session. Exercises will involve the creation of macros or scripts to reach a defined goal. The exercises are to be completed as autonomous homework, outside of lecture hours. Keywords Biology, Image Processing, Microscopy, ImageJ, FIJI, Macros, Data, Segmentation,Filtering Visualisation Open so Assessment methods Continuous Multiple"}
{"courseId": "FIN-523", "name": "Global business environment", "description": "This course provides students with the framework and decision tools needed for taking financial decisions and evaluating investment opportunities in a global economy. We use an integrated model of exchange rate and output determination to analyze the effects of monetary and fiscal policies. Content National Income Accounting and the Balance of Payments Exchange Rates and the Foreign Exchange Market: An Asset Approach Money, Interest Rates and Exchange Rates; Price Level and the Exchange Rate in the Long Run Output and the Exchange Rate in the Short Run with Fixed and Flexible Exchange Rates Fixed Exchange Rates and the Dynamics of Currency Crises Financial Crises and the Choice of Exchange Rate Regime Currency Unions and the European Experience The Global Capital Market Keywords International finance, open-economy macroeconomics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Define the determinants of exchange rates in the short runIllustrate the role of money supply and interest rates in determining exchange rates in the long runDevelop an integrated model of output and exchange rate determinationIllustrate how monetary and fiscal policies affect output and exchange rates in the short and the long runExplain what is a common currency areaAssess / Evaluate the impact of forming a common currency area, like the EurozoneAssess / Evaluate how countries are interconnected via the current account and changes in net foreign wealthIntegrate the role of nontraded goods/factors in determining exchange rates in the long runCompare different exchange rate regimesExpound currency crisesIllustrate the link between financial crises and the choice of exchange-rate regime Transversal skills Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods The course is organized in lectures, class discussions and presentation of case studies. Lectures will provide the theoretical knowledge needed to understand global economic events. Students will have the opportunity to test their knowledge by doing weekly problem sets, which will be graded. Lectures will include several class discussions of recent economic events, which will allow students to apply the theory learned in class. Students will be divided in groups to work on a case study, which they will present in class. The topic of the case study varies from year to year and it will be chosen a few weeks into the course. The case study and its presentation will be part of the final grade. Expected student activities PROBLEM SETS Problem sets will begiven out each Monday and need to be returned to the instructor at the beginning of class the following Monday. The solution to the problem set will be available on the class web page. No late problem set will be accepted. All questions in the problem set will be graded. While working with other students on problem sets is allowed, each student must complete his/her problem set. I strongly recommend you to do the problem sets: this is the best way to learn the material and do well in the course. GROUP CASE STUDY Students will be divided in groups. Each group will prepare and present a case study that is typically related to current economic events. For example, last year the main topic was the Eurozone crisis and each group was assigned a specific topic related to it. The topic of your case study will be announced a few weeks into the course. The case studies will be presented in class and followed by general discussion. You will be graded on the quality of the material, the presentation, and the contribution to the class discussion of other groups' case studies. Assessment methods 30 % Problem sets, class participation and case study 35 % Midterm Exam (closed book) 35 % Final Exam (closed book) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-614", "name": "Electrochemical nano-bio-sensing and bio/CMOS interfaces", "description": "This course is focused on two relevant aspects of the Electrochemical Nano-Bio-technology for CMOS sensing in life science: the Nano/Bio and the Bio/CMOS interfaces. In particular, improvement due to nano-structures in bioactive interfaces and special architectures for CMOS/biochip are discussed Content 1. Bio for Probes/Targets building blocks 2. Bio for Probes/Targets interactions-1 3. Bio for Probes/Targets interactions-2 4. Bio for Detection principles-1 5. Bio for Detection principles-2 6. Nano for Probes immobilization 7. Nano for Probes layer checking-1 8. Nano for Probes layer checking-2 9. Nano to prevent the Electron Transfer 10. Nano to enhance the Electron Transfer 11. CMOS for metabolite (fixed voltage) 12. CMOS for metabolite (scanning voltage) 13. CMOS for multi-metabolites monitoring 14. CMOS for multi-metabolites monitoring 15. CMOS for remote data/power transmission Keywords Nano-Bio-Technology; Carbon Nanotubes; Metallic Nanoparticles; Op Amp; Analog Design; Electrochemical Sensing; CMOS Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Classical mechanics; Geometrical optics; Electro-magnetism; ohm law on steady current and some theorems on alternate current; Laplace transforms Assessment methods by home-works"}
{"courseId": "ME-231(a)", "name": "Structural mechanics (for MT)", "description": "This course aims to provide a concise understanding of how materials and structures react to loads. It covers the basics of stress and strain in multi dimensions, deformation and failure criteria. The course is tailored to problems students from micro-engineering might encounter. Content Review of equilibrium rigid body mechanics Stress and strain in one dimension Stress and strain in higher dimensions Stress concentrations Torsion Transformation of stress and strain Stress and strain in beams (shear and bending moments) Beam bending Indeterminate beams Beam buckling \u00a0 Keywords stress, strain, axial deformation, torsion, beam bending, buckling \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Statique et Dynamique - BA2 - MICRO-102 \u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Contextualise typical problems involving loads, pressures and torquesCompute the stress and strain state of a structure in 3DCompute load limits and best geometries given a design problemDemonstrate a thorough understanding of the relationships between stresses and strains in 3D Teaching methods 3 hours lecture and one hour exercises per week Expected student activities To work at solving the exercises given in the course Assessment methods Written exams: Midterm (30% of the grade) and Final (70% of the grade) \u00a0 \u00a0 Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "AR-402(v)", "name": "Th\u00e9orie et critique du projet MA2 (Boltshauser)", "description": "Over the course time, rammed earth as a building material has been increasingly superseded by industrially produced materials. During this semester, based on a specific design we will explore the as yet, untapped potential which rammed earth can develop within a hybrid construction. Content We developed a variety of projects at several Lausanne locations during the fallsemester that specifically addressed the topic of earth constructions in the context of prefabrication. This semester we plan to built on these design ideas from the fall semester. At Sittertal in St. Gallen we are also looking at the topic of space densification. The students will develop proposals for space densification in the earth building style and draw up a master plan for Sittertal. These project proposals will form the basis for a specific sub-project, a pavilion, to be built during our spring school term. We see special potential in the use of constructive as well as energetically optimised hybrid designs, which we want to develop further in collaboration with the construction industry as well as with qualified specialists.\u00a0 Teaching methods Learning Outcomes Integrated design that takes into consideration context, construction, sustainability and materiality Identifying the potential of building materials with different technical characteristics in order to develop your own ideas for new building systems and implement these ideas in practice Acquiring broad theoretical and historical knowledge about a topic in order to place the resulting findings in today's context Implementing an actual construction project from an architectural design Design with climate as a factor, and calculating a building's grey energy Practical, hands-on designing alongside continuing work on room models Expected student activities Expected Work Attendance at the design days in the studio Taking part in all critical discussions, excursions and the specialist lectures Design plans Visualisations Detailed plans Rammed-earth models in various scales Assessment methods Individual work: Design and development of a structural system using rammed earth Start Workshop to get to know the materials with practical lessons using unfired clay After the 2nd interim review: Rammed-earth building workshop to create one-to-one models Two interim presentations and one final presentation with different guest critics Weekly round-table meetings and joint discussions Support throughout the semester by Martin Rauch, J\u00fcrg Conzett, Wayne Switzer, Corentin Fivet and representatives of the Sitterwerk area Weekly input presentations by various guests and experts Support throughout the semester by Martin Rauch and J\u00fcrg Conzett Additional coaching by representatives from the construction industry Calculating grey energy and sustainability balance with support from Ryzard Gorajek (sustainability expert) Summer School to learn more about practical, actual construction methods and processes Assessment of the work Course work (25%), interim presentations (25%) and final presentation (50%) Supervision Others 2 days a week team presence: 2 days a week for round-table meetings Once a week:\u00a0 Input presentations or lectures by invited guests 3 times per semester: Support from specialist engineers and executing companies"}
{"courseId": "ChE-421", "name": "Advanced principles and applications of systems biology", "description": "This course is a natural continuation of Principles and Applications of System Biology (ChE-411). The goal of this course is to introduce to students systems engineering methodologies as a tool for the study of complex biological networks. Content Specific topics include: mathematical and computational analysis of metabolic reaction networks with focus on dynamic behavior of (bio)chemicalreaction networks including feedback analysis, multi-stability and higher-level circuit properties such as robustness and retroactivity; Network motifs; Probabilistic approach to analysis of biological networks and Bayesian networks. Systems of study: metabolic pathways, signaling networks, genetic regulatory networks. \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses ChE-411 Principles and Applications of Systems Biology Important concepts to start the course For the computational exercises, MATLAB\u00ae will be used intensively. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze quantitatively functioning of complex biological networksConstruct computational models of cellular functionsIdentify recurring network motifs in biological networksDescribe and analyze basic feedback systems appearing in living organismsCompare and implement current state-of-the-art tools for network analysis Transversal skills Make an oral presentation.Summarize an article or a technical report.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsSet objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives. Assessment methods Continuous control exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "CH-403", "name": "Mass spectrometry", "description": "Become familiar with principles of mass spectrometric techniques and their applications in particular in proteomics andmetabolomics. Content Mass spectrometry history Isotopes and molecular weight Mass analyzers Ion sources, ion detectors Mass spectrometers Combination with liquid separation Tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) Gas-phase ion chemistry/physics Organic mass spectrometry Biological mass spectrometry, proteomics Mass spectrometry in medical research Mass spectrometry in environmental science Mass spectrometry in forensics Keywords mass isotopes electrons protons peptide electrical fields ionization Learning Prerequisites Required courses physics thermodynamics basic biology basic chemistry Important concepts to start the course atomic structure molecular structure peptide structure ion motion in electrical/magnetic field ion-molecule collisions vacuum Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze mass spectraWork out / Determine molecular massChoose ionization methodPropose mass analyzerSelect appropriately ion detectorDistinguish charge statesReconstruct peptide sequenceDistinguish types of dissociation Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods lecturing solving problems Expected student activities listening lectures solving problems asking questions Assessment methods oral exam activity at lectures"}
{"courseId": "COM-302", "name": "Principles of digital communications", "description": "This course is on the foundations of digital communication. The focus is on the transmission problem (rather than being on source coding). Content Optimal receiver for vector channelsOptimal receiver for waveform (AWGN) channelsVarious signaling schemes and their performanceEfficient signaling via finite-state machinesEfficient decoding via Viterbi algorithm Communicating over bandlimited AWGN channelsNyquist CriterionCommunicating over passband AWGN channels Keywords Detection, estimation, hypothesis testing, Nyquist, bandwidth, error probability, coding, decoding, baseband, passband, AM, QAM, PSK. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Signal processing for communications and mod\u00e8les stochastiques pour les communications Important concepts to start the course Linear algebra, probability. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Estimate the error probability of a communication linkDesign a \"physical layer\" communication linkImplement a prototype of a \"physical layer\" transmitter/receiver via Matlab Teaching methods Ex cathedra exercises project. Lots of reading at home and exercises in class. Assessment methods With continuous control Resources Websites http://moodle.epfl.ch"}
{"courseId": "EE-432", "name": "Hardware systems modeling I", "description": "Creation and use of models in digital hardware design from the RTL design with the VHDL language to the more abstract system level as required for designing modern systems-on-chip. The SystemVerilog and SystemC languages and the principles of functional verification will be introduced. Content Introduction System-on-chip (SoC) design issues. Design methodologies and design tasks. Notion of model. Hardware description and verification languages at RTL and system level. Digital hardware modeling at RTL and system level Review of essential modeling concepts in RTL design using VHDL. Discrete-event (DE) modeling. Untimed modeling (algorithmic, functional). Transaction-level modeling (TLM). Dataflow (DF) modeling. Modeling using SystemVerilog and SystemC. Functional verification of systems-on-chip Fundamental elements of the functional verification for SoCs: challenges of the verification of complex SoCs, verification methodologies, definition and use of a verification plan, architecture and elements of a layered verification environment. Use of Open Source VHDL Verification Methodology (OSVVM) for building an efficient and scalable functional verification environment. Keywords Hardware description and verification language, model of computation, functional verification, VHDL, SystemVerilog, SystemC. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Logic systems (CS-171). Digital Systems Design (EE-334). Recommended courses Lab in digital systems design (EE-397). Important concepts to start the course Combinational and sequential components in digital electronic systems. RTL design (control and datapath processing). Use of VHDL for synthesis. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe available modeling formalisms for digital hardware system design.Compare the proper use of available modeling formalisms.Use VHDL, SystemVerilog and SystemC for developing models at various levels of abstraction.Exploit proper modeling techniques.Develop reusable models.Construct a basic functional verification environment. Teaching methods Lectures with integrated exercises. Expected student activities Attending lectures. Completing exercises. Using state-of-the-art electronic design automation (EDA) tools. Assessment methods Homework exercises (10%). Midterm examination (40%). Final examination including a quiz and problems (50%). Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes Others Individual feedback comments on delivered work in the Moodle page of the course. Resources Bibliography A. Jantsch, Modeling Embedded Systems and SOC's, Morgan Kaufmann (Elsevier), 2004. P.P. Chu, RTL Hardware Design Using VHDL: Coding for Efficiency, Portability, and Scalability, Wiley-Interscience, 2006. T. Gr\u00f6tker, et al., System Design with SystemC, Springer, 2002. C. Spear, G. Tumbush, SystemVerilog for Verification - A Guide to Learning the Testbench Language Features, Springer, 3rd ed., 2012. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que SystemVerilog for Verification / SpearModeling Embedded Systems and SOC's / JantschRTL Hardware Design Using VHDL / ChuSystem Design with SystemC / Gr\u00f6tker Notes/Handbook Course notes. VHDL/SystemVerilog/SystemC in a nutshell. EDA tool user's guide. Websites http://www.doulos.com/knowhow/vhdl_designers_guidehttp://www.doulos.com/knowhow/sysveriloghttp://www.doulos.com/knowhow/systemc Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=40"}
{"courseId": "MGT-430", "name": "Quantitative systems modeling techniques", "description": "This course is dedicated to various modelling tools, optimization methods and decision analysis techniques, with a specific focus on logistics. Content Introduction to operations research and graph coloring, linear programming, flow theory, graph covering models (with applications in network design, distribution and transportation), distribution, heuristic methods and vehicle routing problems, facility location problems, job shop, facility layout, balancing an assembly line, open shop. Keywords Modelling techniques, operations research Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Represent some important logistical problems by the use of operations research models.Solve such problems with exact methods or heuristics.Classify optimization problems Transversal skills Summarize an article or a technical report.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Lectures, with theoretical parts and various exercises Expected student activities Attendance at lectures and completing exercises Assessment methods Two written exams, no documentation allowed: 40% mid-term exam 60% final exam Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Others Available if firstly contacted by e-mail"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-455", "name": "Medical radiation physics", "description": "This course covers the physical principles underlying medical imaging using ionizing radiation (radiography, fluoroscopy, CT, SPECT, PET). The focus is not only on risk and dose to the patient and staff, but also on an objective description of the image quality. Content Physics of radiography\u00a0 X-ray production, Radiation-patient interaction, Image detection and display Physics of fluoroscopy Image detection, radiation protection of the staff and of the patient Physics of computer tomography (CT) Principle, advantages and limitations of the technique Physics of single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) Principle, advantages and limitations of the technique Physics of positron emission tomography (PET) Principle, advantages and limitations of the technique Physics of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) Principle of the main acquisition sequences, differences with CT Dose to the patient\u00a0 External irradiation, Internal contamination, compartmental models Risk and radiation \u00a0 Rational risk and state of our knowledge, Psychological aspects, Ethics and communication Image quality\u00a0\u00a0Fryback's taxonomy and physical measurement Human vision and its effect in radiation diagnostic Anatomy of the eye, How we look at an image, Visual illusion in medical imaging \u00a0\u00a0 Receiver operating characteristics (ROC) Sensitivity and specificity, Detection experiments, Meaning of a ROC curve, Communication Model observers Objective image quality, Ideal model observers, Anthropomorphic model observers, Link with human vision Keywords medical imaging, medical radiation Teaching methods Ex-cathedra with integrated individual exercises"}
{"courseId": "EE-517", "name": "Bio-nano-chip design", "description": "Introduction to heterogeneous integration for Nano-Bio-CMOS sensors on Chip. Understanding and designing of active Bio/CMOS interfaces powered by nanostructures. Content Currents and capacitive-effects in water solutions Introduction to biological molecules Thermodynamics of molecular Interactions Nanotechnology for molecular assembly on chip' surfaces\u00a0 Nanotechnology to prevent electron transfer Nanotechnology to enhance electron transfer Chip design for electrochemical sensing: basic configurations Chip design for biosensing with label-free capacitance mode (CBCM & FTCM Methods) Chip design for biosensing in constant-bias (Current-to-Voltage & FTCC Methods) Chip design for biosensing in voltage-scan (VDCM & DDSM\u00a0Methods) Keywords OpAmp, CMOS, biosensors, carbon nanotubes, alkane/silane thiols, proteins, DNA Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Electronics I (BS course) General chemistry OR Chemistry of surfaces (both BS courses) Analysis IV (BS course) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose bio materialsChoose nano materialsJudge an electrical interfaceDesign complex analog circuits for electrochemical biosensingDesign Bio-Nano-CMOS-sensing devices at system levelRealize and discuss nanotechnology and molecular layers on chip InvestigateDiscuss biotechnology to Realize biosensors on chip Teaching methods Ex cathedra, and exercises Assessment methods Written Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MSE-613", "name": "Principles of powder and densification processing", "description": "Basics of powder processes, as they concern both the production of powders and materials production by powder densification, with focus on ceramics and metals. Content Main elements of the course are listed (and will be presented) as follows :\u00a01. Powder synthesis: main processes and a few of their fundamentals \u00a02. Powder characterization principles: descriptive parameters and characteristics of engineering powders\u00a03. Principal densification processes: nature and basic features\u00a04. Solid state densification mechanisms: underlying atomistic and microstructural phenomena\u00a05. Grain growth and microstructural development\u00a06. Macroscopic solid state densification theory\u00a07. Liquid phase sintering Keywords Powder synthesis, powder characterization, principal densification, microstructural development, liquid phase sintering Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Prerequisites for the course include a knowledge of thermodynamics, kinetics and transport phenomena (including diffusion), and of the physics of deformation, as relevant to materials science and engineering."}
{"courseId": "MSE-423", "name": "Fundamentals of solid-state materials", "description": "Fundamentals of quantum mechanics as applied to atoms, molecules, and solids. Electronic, optical, and magnetic properties of solids. Content Fundamentals of electronic structure: The Schroedinger equation and its solution for free electrons, electrons in a potential well, or in a Coulomb potential. Variational principle and digaonalization. Electronic structure of molecules, and approximate solutations with linear combination of atomic orbitals, Hartree-Fock. Symmetry operation and their role in classifying eigenstates. Hamiltonian in a periodic potential and energy bands. Free-electron and tight-binding models. Fermi-Diract statistics and distribution. Electrical transport and semiconductors. Optical properties of materials, and their quantum origin. Magnetic properties of materials. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Basic knowledge of classical mechanics and electromagnetism. Learning Outcomes Elaborate the electronic origin of materials properties"}
{"courseId": "MGT-621", "name": "Microeconomics", "description": "This course presents a first introduction to microeconomic theory and its applications. It lays the foundation for more advance courses. Content The main objectives of the course are: to provide a calculus-based introduction to models for the rational behavior of individuals units of an economy and their interactions; to enable students to address a simple microeconomic problem by structuring it as a formal model, the analysis of which yields useful predictions and insights. Topics to be covered include the theory of choice, the theory of the firm, partial and general equilibrium, market failure, regulation, and welfare economics. \u00a0 Please visit the course website for an updated syllabus: http://econspace.net/MGT-621.html \u00a0 (login: 621student; password: TBA in class) \u00a0 \u00a0 Assessment methods Students need to complete a number of homework assignments (problem sets). There will be a final exam as well as a team project. The final examination covers the whole of the course. The course grade is computed as follows: Grade= 0.2 (Problem Sets) 0.4 (Exam) 0.3 (Project) 0.1 (Participation). For all problem sets I strongly encourage cooperation. Since some of the analysis can be demanding in term of the new intuition requrired, discussing the problems with others is very important. Solutions need to be written up and handed in individually. \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "MSE-437", "name": "Polymer chemistry and macromolecular engineering", "description": "Know modern methods of polymer synthesis. Understand how parameters, which determine polymer structure and properties, such as molecular weight, molecular weight distribution, topology, microstructure can be controlled by proper choice of polymerization method and optimization of reaction condition Content Introduction: Polymer structure, molecular weight and propertiesStep polymerizationRadical chain polymerization (free radical polymerization, controlled radical polymerization)Emulsion polymerizationIonic chain polymerization (anionic and cationic polymerization)Chain copolymerizationRing-opening polymerization\u00a0 Keywords Polymer chemistry chain polymerization step polymerization Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses General chemistry, Inorganic chemistry, Organic and polymer chemistry Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Discuss the main types of polymerization techniquesPropose synthetic strategies to prepare specific synthetic polymersSpecify the influence of key reaction parameters on polymer properties Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Make an oral presentation.Write a scientific or technical report. Assessment methods Continuous assessment"}
{"courseId": "MSE-431", "name": "Physical chemistry of polymeric materials", "description": "The student has a basic understanding of the physical and physicochemical principles which result from the chainlike structure of synthetic macromolecules. The student can predict major characteristics of a polymer from its chemical structure and molecular architecture. Content Introduction Dilute solutions Concentrated solutions and phase behavior The amorphous state The crystalline state The glass-rubber transition Rubber elasticity Viscoelastic properties\u00a0 Keywords dilution solutions concetrated solution glass transition rubber elasticity viscoelastic behaviour Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses General chemistry, Inorganic chemistry, organic and polymer chemistry Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Predict polymer characteristics based on chemical structure and molecular architectureDiscuss dilute and concetrated solution and bulk behaviour of synthetic polymersUse insights from physicochemical experiments to discuss the composition and architecture of polymers Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions. Teaching methods Lectures and exercises Assessment methods written"}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-448", "name": "Fundamentals of neuroengineering", "description": "Neuroengineering is at the frontier between neuroscience and engineering: understanding how the brain works allows developing engineering applications and therapies of high impact, while design of new measurement and data analysis techniques contributes to advance our knowledge about the brain. Content 1. How the Brain Works\u00a02. Recording and Analysis of Brain Activity\u00a03. Peripheral Neurprostheses\u00a04. Brain-Machine Interfaces\u00a05. Sensory Neuroprostheses\u00a06. Plasticity 7. Neurorehabilitation Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Background in neuroscience, signal processing, and machine learning (e.g., EE-516). Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Formalize basic building blocks of neuroengineering.Develop critical thinkingAssess / Evaluate he potential and current limitations of neuroengineering Teaching methods Lectures, exercises. Expected student activities Students will have to carry out weekly exercises (mostly critical review of papers) and provide a written report. Assessment methods Written exam. Final grade: 2/3 Exam, 1/3 Exercises."}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-450", "name": "In Silico neuroscience", "description": "\"In silico Neuroscience\" introduces students to a synthesis of modern neuroscience and state-of-the-art data management and computing technologies. This includes perspectives on neuroinformatics, neurosimulation, scientific computing, neuromorphic computing, clinical informatics, ethics and policy. Content \"In silico Neuroscience\" introduces masters students to a synthesis of modern neuroscience and state-of-the-art data management and computing technologies. The course will cover a number of key topics including: \u00a01) how neuroscience data is acquired, organized and integrated (neuroinformatics), 2) data-driven modeling and validation of synapses,\u00a0cells and networks (neurosimulation), 3) software technologies for simulation and analysis (scientific computing), 4) how the brain as a computational\u00a0device may influence information technology (neuromorphic computing), 5) how to generate 'big data' from the clinic (clinical neuroinformatics), 6) Ethical issues, and the global outlook including the emerging large-scale brain initiatives. The target audience are technically adept students in the EPFL Neuroscience program and\u00a0students from other programs (e.g. I&C, SB, CSE) interested in applying their domain techniques to neuroscience.\u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Neuroscience II Introduction to programming Projects in informatics Important concepts to start the course general knowledge on cellular neuroscience experience in elementary programming (preferentially python) \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose appropriate annotations and provenance standards for experimental dataInterpret discrepancies between experimental findingsAssess / Evaluate different level of detail formulations of modelsIntegrate biological facts into detailed neuron and tissue modelsApply model concepts in simulationsExploit standard modelling and simulation softwareAnalyze model predictionsExplain formalisms and approaches in simulation software Teaching methods Classroom teaching & exercises group work"}
{"courseId": "MSE-474", "name": "Materials selection", "description": "Propose suitable materials, design, and production routes depending on different performance criteria using a computer based software approach. The course is based on Prof. Mike Ashby's well known \"Ashby plots\" comparing different material properties (mechanical, thermal, chemical, etc.). Content General introduction and presentation of the methodologyDesign and manufacturing of \"new\" materials and material combinations with desired attributesIllustration of the approach based on practical case studies; the examples range from structural & functional bulk materials, thin & thick film coatings, and composites down to complex systems like music instrumentsExercises Keywords Materials evaluation, production processes evaluation, economical and ecological considerations case studies Learning Prerequisites Required courses Basics in materials & mechanical engineering Recommended courses Engineering Design Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Propose Propose the best material for a specifica application..Work out / Determine materials constraints and free variables.Derive indices of goodness (mechanical, thermal, ecological...).Create and defend a selection strategy respecting multiple objectives.Assess / Evaluate production methods with respect to economical and ecological aspects. Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsContinue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Take responsibility for environmental impacts of her/ his actions and decisions.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods 50% ex-cathedra, 50% cases studies, team work, exercises and discussion Expected student activities Attendance at lectures and solving of case studies Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-424", "name": "Optics laboratories I", "description": "This laboratory work allows students to deepen their understanding of optical instruments, optoelectronic devices and diagnostic methods. Students will be introduced in state of the art optical instruments and measurement principles. Content 4 experiments on Fourier optics, optical fibers, lasers: Optical fibers - Light injection, multi and single mode fibers Tunable diode laser ' external cavity laser, MEMS grating Fourier Optics Solar cells Diode pumped Nd :YAG laser - frequency doubling Keywords Optical instruments, optical measurement techniques, Diode laser, He-Ne laser, Fourier optics, waveguide and fiber optics, error analysis Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bachelor in Microengineering, or Electrical and electronic engineering, or Physics. Recommended courses MICRO-420: Advanced optics MICRO-421: Imaging optics MICRO-422: Lasers and optics of nanostructures MICRO-522: Integrated optics MICRO-523: Optical radiation detection methods MICRO-321 Optical engineering I MICRO-321 Optical engineering II \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course Basics of optics, programming with MATLAB or similar, matrix calculations, Fourier transformation, electromagnetic waves, refraction and reflection, polarization, basics of geometrical optics, semiconductor physics, laser physics. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Apply principles of laser securityPerform data analysis using excel and MatlabAssess / Evaluate the reliability of a measurementPerform an optical measurementExplain measurement resultsEstimate measurement errors Transversal skills Manage priorities.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsContinue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingTake feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner. Teaching methods Practical laboratory work in group (2 persons) 4 Experiments (2 afternoons each) Expected student activities Individual activity Participation at all experiments Execution of practical work Keep a Laboratory note book Group activity Scientific/technical report writing per experiment Assessment methods Discussion of basic concepts during instruction (individual) Evaluation of experimental work (individual) Evaluation of written report (group) Evaluation of laboratory notebook (individual) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Bibliography Fundamentals of optical waveguides / Katsunari Okamoto, 2006 Fundamentals of photonics / B.E.A. Saleh, M. C. Teich, 2007 Integrated optics: theory and technology, vol. 33 / Hunsperger, 2009 An introduction to error analysis: the study of uncertainties in physical measurements, J. R. Taylor, University Science Books, 2nd ed., 1997 Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Fundamentals of optical waveguides / OkamotoFundamentals of photonics / SalehIntegrated optics: theory and technology / HunspergerAn introduction to error analysis: the study of uncertainties in physical measurements / Taylor Notes/Handbook Handout of course slides and documentation of individual experiments Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=15325"}
{"courseId": "ME-432", "name": "Fracture mechanics", "description": "The student acquires the notions of damage and fracture in different materials; the basis of energy release rate and stress intensity factor; fracture criteria; weight functions for crack opening displacements; J integral and non-linear fracture; fatigue crack propagation. Content The course presents the modern theory of fracture mechanics, stress singularities, the various fracture modes, stress intensity factors and energy release rates in linear and no-linear materials. The main chapters cover the following topics: review of the classical theories of strength and damage, singular problems in linear elasticity theory and fracture parameters, weight functions, fracture in elastoplastic materials, applications to composite materials, experimental methods in fracture mechanics. Keywords Damage, Fracture Learning Prerequisites Required courses Solid mechanics Recommended courses \u00a0 \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course Apply the concepts of rigid and deformable body mechanics and of continuum mechanics to model and solve analytically problems of statics, structural stress analysis or simple mechanisms, S1 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Apply the principles of damage, fatigue and fracture mechanics to predict the size and localisation of critical defects and the number of cycles to failure of a real structure under complex loading conditions, S8 Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lectures, exercises sessions and TP Assessment methods Oral examination 60%, project 30%, exercises 10% Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "ENV-400", "name": "Air pollution and climate change\n", "description": "A survey course describing the origins of air pollution and climate change Content Atmospheric pollutants and their effects on the environment Emissions related to air pollution and climate change Measurements of air pollutants, greenhouse gases and meteorological conditions Air quality models Environmental regulations and abatement strategies related to air pollution and climate change Keywords Atmospheric chemistry, air quality, climate change, air pollution, meteorology, aerosols Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Physics and Chemistry of the Atmosphere (ENV-320) Important concepts to start the course Differential, integral, and vector calculus Linear algebra Chemistry (reaction rates, chemical thermodynamics) Basic programming concepts Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Identify compounds recognized as pollutants and regulated in various countriesCategorize emission or production sources and removal mechanisms of various pollutants.Compare methods and practical issues concerning measurement of gas, particles, and meteorological variables.Describe challenges in modeling atmospheric pollution/climate change phenomena.Explain the dependence of air quality on emissions, meteorology, and atmospheric chemistry.Assess / Evaluate the impacts of human activity on air pollution and climate change.Describe potential mitigation strategies as possible solutions to air pollution/climate change problems.Interpret atmospheric observations Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals. Teaching methods Lectures and exercises (quantitative and programming) Expected student activities Lecture attendance, exercise assignments Assessment methods 40% exercise assignments, 60% final exam"}
{"courseId": "HUM-429(a)", "name": "Philosophy of life sciences I", "description": "Understand and discuss central issues in the philosophy of life sciences, for instance that of reductionism. Transpose problems and arguments from one debate to another. Evaluate the impact of the scientific worldview to the proper understanding of our human nature. Content Science vs religion Notion of biological function and dysfunction Reductionism in the life sciences Boundaries of biological individuals and species Dilemma for free will in a physical world New paradigm of complex systems \u00a0 In terms of questions ... Where lies, if at all, the conflict between evolutionary theory and religion? What does \"dysfunction\", what does \"normal\" may mean? Do they exist in nature? What is the relationship between biology and the microphysical world and that of different theories? What makes us a biological individual, how to define our species? Are we free to break the laws of nature or are we entirely determined by the laws of nature? These questions, among many others, will be tackled in the philosophical reflection on the life sciences offered by this master module. Reflecting on these issues provides intellectual tools for a better understanding of today's science and technologies. Keywords Evolutionary theory, Function, Dysfunction, Normes, Completeness of phyics, Reductionism, Emergentism, Pluralism, Explanatory autonomy, Natural kinds, Free will, Determinism, Indeterminism, Complex systems Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Philosophie et histoire des sciences A (HUM-216) Philosophie et histoire des sciences B (HUM-238) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Synthesize philosophical debates and problems.Analyze philosophical texts on your own.Assess / Evaluate arguments and positions during the course discussion.Assess / Evaluate arguments and positions on your own in written form.Critique the position of others (students/teacher).Develop your own approach to a philosophical debate.Transpose arguments and problems from one debate to another.Generalize particular problems and arguments. Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art.Summarize an article or a technical report. Teaching methods In autumn term: Lecture/Seminar (English) Supervision (English/French/German) of the elaboration of a project plan (individual plan of project). In spring term: Supervision of projects (indivual projects or group projects). (More information and the precise schedule are provided at the beginning of the academic year) Expected student activities In autumn term: The official workload of 90h (for the SHS program) are in fact required for good results, results obtained by: Active participation at the lecture/seminar (preparation of each course; being capable of participating in the discussion). Passing a test that is about the topics of the lecture/seminar (passing the test requires a good understanding of all topics of the lecture/seminar). Elaboration of an individual project plan that is linked to at least one issue of the lecture/seminar (individual plan of project). \u00a0 In spring term: Realisation of a philosophical project (individual project or group project) that requires notably a critical lecture of articles and books (mostly in English), high level writing skills, working discipline and time management (the official workload of 90h for the SHS program are in fact required for good results). \u00a0 (More information and the precise schedule are provided at the beginning of the academic year) Assessment methods Evaluation on a semester basis (grade associated to 3 ECTS). \u00a0 In autumn term: 1) Result of the test 2) Quality of the project plan (individual plan of project). \u00a0 In spring term: Realisation of the philosophical project (individual essay or group essay) according to the schedule and general philosophical standards. \u00a0 (More information on philosophical standards and the precise schedule for the spring term are provided at the beginning of the academic year and during supervision of the project plan) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No Forum No Others More information about the supervision are provided at the beginning of the academic year."}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-517", "name": "Lab methods : proteomics", "description": "Introduction to several mass spectrometry techniques and their application to the proteomics field. Description of bioinformatics tools used to analyze proteomics data. The goal of the course is to provide an overview of main proteomics strategies and their applications in the Life Science context Content The course is structured so as to alternate theory and illustrative practical exercise periods in the laboratory. \u00a0 Day 1: Morning (theory) Introduction\u00a0to proteomics analysis principles: Define what Proteomics is Introduction to the Platform Mass spectrometry: sampleionization and mass analysis principles (MALDI, electrospray, m/z, resolution, isotopicdistribution) Liquid chromatography: sampleseparation principles. Instrumentation\u00a0and methods used in proteomics: Distribution and presentation of a selection of representative articles and lab visit \u00a0 Noon (practical) Illustration of what was presentedin the morning Sample preparation (proteindigestion) ESI-MS molecular weight measurement:infusion of diverse samples on Orbitrap instrument (single peptide, severalpeptides mix, single protein, several proteins mix, show resolution, monoisotopicmass) MALDI-MS molecular weightmeasurement: sample preparation and measurements on MALDI-TOF/TOF (same samplesas infusion) \u00a0 Day 2: Morning (theory) Simple Proteomics Workflows Intact mass measurements Protein identification principles \u00a0 Noon (practical) Illustration of what was presentedin the morning Sample preparation (protein digestionfinalization and sample desalting) Quality control check onMALDI-MS (MW measurements) Infusion-MS/MS to illustratetandem MS fragmentation principles Presentation of LC-MS/MS principlesfor peptide separation and protein identification in front of instruments. \u00a0 Day 3: Morning (theory) More\u00a0complex Proteomics Workflows Increasing the depth of analysis: typical workflows for protein and peptide fractionations Increasing the complexity: typical workflows for Post\u00a0Translational Modifications analysis Increasing the information content: Protein quantification\u00a0strategies (SILAC, Dimethyl labeling, iTRAQ-TMT, SRM/MRM) \u00a0 Noon (practical) Illustration of what was presentedin the morning SRM quantification: Triple Quadrupole instrument presentation Hands on introduction on representative bioinformatics tools\u00a0for MS based protein identification and quantification Debriefing\u00a0about the practical session, Q&A and conclusions Learning Prerequisites Required courses First year of master in Life Sciences & Technology or Bioengineering program. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Integrate the basic theoretical and technical concepts of mass spectrometryApply these concepts to the analysis of proteins and to the proteomics fieldDescribe and explain the different methods and tools presented during the coursePerform sample preparation for mass spectrometry related experimentsAnalyze and interpret data coming from mass spectrometry and simple proteomics experimentsSelect appropriately approaches and sample preparation methods adapted to the nature of the biological sample analyzedDecide between the different methods and tools presented during the course which one could be used in different contextsSystematize useful information from a paper and summarize its content Transversal skills Collect data.Summarize an article or a technical report. Teaching methods Shortex-cathedra lectures to introduce the concepts followed by hands on practicalsessions in the laboratory including sample preparation, analysis by massspectrometry and data interpretation. Deepening of knowledge acquired inpractical sessions by personal work on selected papers representative of thetechnique used in proteomics Expected student activities This block course will take place from November 8th to November 11th, 2016.Practical part will take place\u00a0 in the proteomics core facility. Assessment methods Written exam during the semester. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Others Office hours : 8h30-18h Assistants: Jonathan Paz Montoya and Adrien Schmid"}
{"courseId": "MSE-420", "name": "Cementitious materials (advanced)", "description": "Discussion of topical subjects related to the current use of cementitious materials. Through a guided literature survey prepare a presentation in a group on a topical issue Content 1. Introduction - overview of structure of cementitious materials, advantages and disavantages.2. Hydration.3. Supplementary cementitious materials.4. Understanding and characterising the pore structure of cementitious materials.5. Transport properties.6. Durability issues.7. Calcium aluminate cements.8. Ultra high performance concrete.9. Admixtures and rheology\u00a0 Keywords Cementitious materials, hydratin, durability, characterisation methods Learning Prerequisites Required courses MSE 322 - Building Materials and Laboratory work Recommended courses Building materials Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain Chemical and physical processes underlying the behaviour of cementitious materialsInterpret scientific papers related to cementitious materialsAnalyze appropriatness of different characterisation techniquesAnalyze economic and ecological appropriateness of different materials solutionsDesign lecture on chosen topic Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Negotiate effectively within the group.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Make an oral presentation.Summarize an article or a technical report.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art. Teaching methods Ex cathedra group discussion of papers from literature Expected student activities attend lectures find relevant paper from search engines present summary of findings prepare lecture in team Assessment methods contribution to discussion sessins throughout course presentation at intermediate and final stages Supervision Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "ENV-501", "name": "Material and energy flow analysis", "description": "This course provides the bases to understand material and energy production and consumption processes. Students learn how to develop a material flow analysis and apply it to cases of resource management. They learn how to analyze the implications of their models on resource use and policy making. Content Material Flow Analysis as a quantitative tool of Industrial Ecology Urban and regional metabolism Dynamic modeling Data sources, quality and uncertainty Input output analysis, monetary and physical input output tables Economy wide material flow accounting MFA as support system for decision and policy making Overview of existing software packages and databases Introduction to Umberto for system modeling Keywords Material flow analysis Environmental resource management Policy recommendations Umberto software package \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Life cycle analysis Important concepts to start the course Linear algebra Transport phenomena Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Develop a material and energy flow analysis for a relevant resource problemJustify and critically reflect on system analysisDerive policy implications for production and consumption processes based on their resultsAssess / Evaluate and understand the modeling results of other studentsApply the Umberto software package for system modeling Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsUse a work methodology appropriate to the task.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingDemonstrate a capacity for creativity.Write a scientific or technical report.Collect data. Teaching methods Interactive lectures and exercises with a graded group project Invited lecturer from the Federal Office of Statistics \u00a0 Expected student activities We expect students to participate in all lectures and exercise sessions. Students should complete the exercises on a weekly basis to understand the theory and practice of MFA. The course and group project build on MFA models and student are expected to work effectively on their own, in small groups and with the help of lecturers. \u00a0 Assessment methods Student will be evaluated in two ways: A midterm exam to evaluate theoretical part of the cours (50 % of the final grade) An oral presentation and a written report for a group project to evaluate the students capability to model, analyze and interpret a practical resource problem (50 % of the final grade) \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "MATH-111(en)", "name": "Linear algebra (english)", "description": "The purpose of the course is to introduce the basic notions of linear algebra and its applications. Content Linear systems; Matrix algebra; Vector spaces; Bases and dimension; Linear applications and matrices; Determinant of a matrix; Eigenvalues and eigenvectors; Inner product, orthogonality, quadratic forms. Keywords vector space, linearity, matrix, determinant, orthogonality, inner product Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Accurately make standard computations relevant to linear algebra and interpret the results;Define and provide illustrative examples of relevant theoretical notions;Identify examples of relevant theoretical notions;Construct a simple logical argument rigorously;Identify some connections between linear algebra and other branches of mathematics. Teaching methods Lectures and exercises in the classroom Assessment methods Written exam Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "ChE-302", "name": "Transport phenomena II", "description": "This course integrates intermediate fluid mechanics with heat and mass transport phenomena to enable students to analyze problems of interest to a chemical engineer. Students develop abilities to design basic transport modules for engineering application. Content Turbulent flow The universal velocity profile (logarithmic low) Boundary layer theory Dimentional analysis and dimentionless groups Blasius and von Karman approaches Flows in porous media Blanke-Kozeney and Ergun equations Study of filtration Fluidization Heat transfert (unsteady state) Estimation of heat transfer coefficient without phase transition Heat exchangers"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-505", "name": "Printed systems and large area manufacturing", "description": "This course addresses the implementation of organic and printed electronics technologies using large area manufacturing techniques. It will provide knowledge on materials, fabrication processes, devices, systems, and applications: state of the art and current status on commercialization. Content General introduction: What is printing? Historical background, Printed electronics and large area manufacturing: materials, processes, devices and systems, Unique aspects of printable electronics, Status in the field and trends Organic semiconductors: Introduction to organic semiconductors, From chemical bonds to bands, Charge injection and transport, Optical properties, Examples of relevant printable electronic and functional materials Printing and other large area processes: Basics and fundamentals,Fluid formulation and rheology for pritning, Ink-substrate interaction, Inks and printing techniques: gravure, flexography, screen, inkjet, Coating techniques, Laser processes, Additional coating and structuring techniques. Ink drying, curing and sintering: oven, UV, plasma, microwave, photonic techniques Electrons to light and light to electrons: OLEDs and OPVs: Introduction and history: organic light emitting diodes and organic photovoltaics, Basic device structures and operation, Processing: evaporation/ solution processing, lab to fab, sheet and roll processes, Packaging and encapsulation considerations, Figures of merit and relation to applications Energy storage and harvesting: Principles of battery and supercapacitors, architectures, printed of energy sources and storage components, Mechanical and thermal harvesters, rectennas Sensors and actuators: Printed sensors and Actuators, Chemical: liquid and gas phase, Biosensors, Physical sensors: temperature, pressure and touch, light, Microsystems and MEMS, Actuators, Lab-on-chip and microfluidics TFTs and circuits: Introduction about printed transistors: organic/polymer, metal-oxide, electrolyte gated. CSEM's case studies: submicrometer OTFTs and gravure printed OTFTs, From transistors to circuits (modeling, design kit, technology assessment) Heterogeneous integration and Smart systems: Introduction to integration methods: one Foil vs. Foil-to-Foil approaches, System in Foil, Hybrid integration: SMD and printed component on foil, CSEM's case studies: high-pass audio filter and sun sensor, Passive components: Resistors, capacitors, inductors, Memories: Resistive, ferroelectric, write-once-read-many (WORM), RFID, wireless and smart systems Encapsulation:Introduction, relevance, encapsulation of large area printed / organic electronics, Permeation in solids and thin films, Examples of barriers materials and processing for different devices and systems, Characterization and evaluation of encapsulation Large area manufacturing of printed systems: Challenges: from small to large area, All printed vs. hybrid, Sheet to sheet vs. roll to roll, Examples of manufacturing lines, Characterization techniques for LAM, Environmental aspects Applications, commercial products and market, roadmap and innovation: Roadmapping : what is it?, Application examples ( e.g. OLED, OPV, hybrid and integrated systems), Innovation management in printed electronics Seminars from external partners: R&D institutes or Industries Keywords Printed, flexible and organic electronics, large area manufacturing and compatible fabrication techniques, electronics, photonics, sensors and microsystems, energy sources and storage, encapsulation, heterogeneous integration, smart systems Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Identify the advantages, drawbacks, performances, complementarity and uniqueness of large area manufacturing vs. silicon technologyIntegrate the operation principles, architectures and processing of main devices and systems fabricated using printing techniquesAnalyze the challenges of manufacturing products using large area fabrication techniquesPredict systems integration issues and propose methods for integration and encapsulation of printed devices and systemsIllustrate applications of functional and intelligent surfaces and smart systems fabricated using large are manufacturingCompose exemples of pilot and production lines for printed electronics devices and systems Teaching methods Lectures, exercises, case studies, and seminars from the industry Expected student activities Attending the lectures and seminars Review the slides and read the reference book Solving the exercises Assessment methods Oral examination at the end of the course"}
{"courseId": "CS-352", "name": "Theoretical computer science", "description": "An in-depth introduction to some of the key ideas and tools of Theoretical Computer Science. Covered material touches upon: streaming algorithms, spectral graph theory, interactive and zero-knowledge proofs, pseudorandomness, algorithmic game theory, and quantum computing. Content Basics of streaming algorithms Fundamentals of spectral graph theory The power of randomness and interaction (zero-knowledge proofs and PCP theorem) Theory of pseudorandomness and one-way functions Introduction to algorithmic game theory Nature-inspired models of computations (quantum computing) \u00a0 Keywords theoretical computer science, algorithms, computational complexity, streaming algorithms, spectral graph theory, randomness, pseudorandomness, algorithmic game theory, quantum computing Learning Prerequisites Required courses CS-150 Discrete Structures CS-250 Algorithms CS-251 Theory of Computation (former name: Theoretical Computer Science/Informatique th\u00e9orique) Mathematical maturity, i.e., ability to read and write mathematical proofs Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze computational modelsApply mathematical tools to understand computational processesDesign space-/time-efficient algorithms for graph and estimation problemsFormalize properties of interactive and cryptographic protocolsDescribe quantum model of computationModel game-theoretic aspects of real-world scenariosExplain the concept of pseudorandomnessPerform a rigorous study of performance of an algorithm or a protocol Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions. Teaching methods Ex cathedra with exercises"}
{"courseId": "HUM-417(a)", "name": "Philosophy, epistemology and history of science I", "description": "The course considers central themes in the philosophy of science, such as scientific realism and the ontology of physics. Starting from the debate between Leibniz and Newton about space and time, we move on to the transition from classical to quantum physics and the explanatory role of mathematics. Content Philosophical perspectives on the exact sciences and their history How did the visions of space and time change from Galileo via Newton to Einstein? What is matter following the revolution introduced by quantum physics? What is a law of nature? Do mathematical objects really exist? These questions, among many others, will be tackled in the philosophical reflection on the exact sciences and their history that this master course offers. Reflecting on these issues provides intellectual tools for a better understanding of today's science and technologies. After an introductory teaching, the students work in small groups of 1 to 3 students on a particular project and present their results to the whole group. Students are free to choose the project that interests them most, but we encourage them to work on a project that is about philosophical issues raised in connection with their main branch at EPFL. We propose several interdisciplinary projects in the philosophy of physics in cooperation with professors from the physics department. Keywords History and philosophy of science, philosophy of physics, philosophy of mathematics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: ArgueFormulateSystematizeDevelop Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures. Teaching methods Ex cathedra course, project work, student presentation of projects Expected student activities Class participation and working in groups. Assessment methods Oral presentation, written essay in small groups.Evaluation on a semester basis (grade associated to 3 ECTS). Fall semester evaluation is about knowledge acquisition and the elaboration of a project plan. Spring semester evaluation is about the realization of the project. More information is given at the beginning of the academic year. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-429", "name": "Reservoir mechanics for geo-energy and the environment", "description": "This course introduces the concepts required to develop fluid-filled porous reservoirs in subterranean formation for a number of industrial applications. It covers the effects of fluid withdrawal and injection on in-situ rock stresses and deformation, well stimulation, deep drilling etc. Content -\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Introduction to geo-energy & the different types of subterranean reservoirs -\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Rock geo-mechanical characterization & in-situ stress characterization at different scales -\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Deep well construction -\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Poroelasticity & flow in deformable fractures -\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Fluid flow around a well, pore-pressure diffusion, interference between wells, introduction to reservoir management. -\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Effects induced by fluid withdrawal and/or injection: fault re-activation, induced seismicity, surface deformation, cap-rock integrity, un-controlled fracturing. -\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Hydraulic fracturing for well stimulation. -\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Introduction to numerical methods in geomechanics -\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Applications to conventional and unconventional hydrocarbon resources, deep geothermal systems and CO2 geological storage. \u00a0 Keywords geo-energy, energy, geotechnical engineering, poromechanics, fluid flow, fractures, wells Learning Prerequisites Required courses Continuum mechanics (solid and fluid) Recommended courses Geomechanics, groundwater flow, soil mechanics, rock mechanics, fracture mechanics \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course good knowledge of continuum mechanics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: understand the necessary steps required to develop a geo-mechanical model of the sub-surfaceevaluate the impact of fluid withdrawal and/or injection on sub-surface stresses and deformation (notably the risks of large induced seismicity)Recognize and discuss the uncertainties related to the sub-surfaceUnderstand the step of well construction and completionevaluate when and how to stimulate a well by hydraulic fracturingdiscuss the initiation of hydraulic fractures and their different regimes of propagation Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingTake responsibility for environmental impacts of her/ his actions and decisions. Expected student activities A project will be assigned at the beginning of October and run through the end of the semester. It will count for 70% of the grade. It will involve the following steps:\u00a0 i) putting a real engineering problem in mathematical form (physical modeling), ii) discussing order of magnitude via dimensional analysis , iii) solving the problem (numerically or analytically) and iv) discuss the relevance of the results for practice. \u00a0 Assessment methods 100%\u00a0 during the semester (written tests 30%, project 70%)"}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-449", "name": "Non linear analysis of structures", "description": "This course deals with the nonlinear modelling and analysis of structures when subjected to monotonic, cyclic, and dynamic loadings, focusing in particular on the seismic response of structures. It introduces solution methods for nonlinear static and dynamic problems. Content The course is based on assignments in which students will model structures tested in the laboratory and compare numerical results to experimental results. \u00a0 Expressing the nonlinear static and dynamic problem for single-degree-of-freedom and multiple-degree-of-freedom systems. Solution Methods in Nonlinear Static Analysis: Newton-Raphson methods, incremental-iterative procedures with variable loading parameter. Modelling of different components in buildings and bridges: columns, beams, walls, foundations, slabs, and bearings. Uniaxial and multi-axial material models for concrete, steel and masonry for modelling plasticity and damage under cyclic loading. Total and incremental compatibility and equilibrium relations in beams, accounting for large displacements (corotational formulation). Differential equations for Euler-Bernoulli and Timoshenko beams. Sectional analysis of RC sections. Beam formulations with concentrated and distributed plasticity approaches (force-based and displacement-based). Localization issues and regularization techniques. Overview on other modelling approaches for structures (membranes, shell and macro-elements) Energy dissipation and damping models. Nonlinear Static Analysis (pushover curves, Capacity Spectrum Method and N2 Method). Nonlinear Dynamic Analysis, focusing of methods for numerical time-domain integration. Review of past blind prediction tests and comparison between numerical and experimental results. The course will be taught jointly by Dr. Jo\u00e3o Almeida, Prof. Kiarash Dolatshahi (visiting professor EESD) and Prof. Katrin Beyer.\u00a0 Keywords Finite element analysis, modelling of structures, seismic analysis Learning Prerequisites Required courses Fundamental course in linear finite element analysis (CIVIL-321 Mod\u00e9lisation num\u00e9rique des solides et structures or equivalent) Structural dynamics (CIVIL-420 Dynamique des structures or equivalent) Reinforced concrete structures (CIVIL-234 Structures en b\u00e9ton or equivalent) Seismic engineering (e.g. CIVIL-522 Seismic engineering or equivalent) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Hypothesize different structural members with adequate modelling approachesChoose appropriate constitutive laws, element formulations and solution methods for structures undergoing inelastic deformationsConduct nonlinear static and dynamic analyses of complete structuresApply a nonlinear finite element software for seismic modelling and analysisInterpret output and estimate achievable simulation accuracy Transversal skills Make an oral presentation."}
{"courseId": "FIN-405", "name": "Investments", "description": "The course covers a wide range of topics in investment analysis Content Topics include portfolio selection, equilibrium asset pricing, arbitrage pricing, market efficiency, behavioral finance, tests of asset pricing models, trading strategies in equity, fixed income, foreign exchange, and commodity markets, as well as dynamic asset allocation. \u00a0The course is rigorous, and students are expected to be able to understand and apply quantitative methods. Examples will illustrate real-world applications of the theory. Keywords Investments, portfolio choice, asset pricing. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Introduction to finance Stochastic calculus I Econometrics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Derive the mean-variance efficient frontier, analyze diversification benefits, and explain the concept of risk parityExplain the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) and describe extensions of the framework including those that take into account liquidity, consumption, and intertemporal issuesImplement models with macro factors and portfolio factors including the Fama and French model; compare and contrast the Arbitrage Pricing Theory (APT) with the CAPMAssess / Evaluate the empirical performance of asset pricing models with particular emphasis on size and value anomalies, the risk anomaly, and liquidityCharacterize empirical evidence for limits to arbitrage; explain biases in investors' decision makingContrast different approaches to estimating the yield curve including bootstrapping, cubic splines, and Nelson-Siegel; suggest relative-value trading strategies in fixed-income marketsImplement and describe hedging strategies using duration and convexity conceptsCharacterize the expectation hypothesis including the empirical evidence or lack thereofDesign trading strategies in foreign exchange and commodity markets based on carry and momentumDerive dynamic asset allocation strategies in settings with stochastic interest rates and stochastic risk premia Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner. Teaching methods Lectures and exercises Assessment methods 30% combined weight on weekly assignments given during the course 30% mid-term exam - closed-book 40% final exam - closed-book Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes Resources Bibliography The main textbook for the course is: Zvi Bodie, Alex Kane, and Alan Marcus. Investments. McGraw-Hill. \u00a0 In addition, a number of journal articles and cases will be used. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Investments / Bodie Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/enrol.php?id=9371"}
{"courseId": "CS-699(1)", "name": "Project 1 (EDIC)", "description": "Semester project in an IC laboratory."}
{"courseId": "ME-551", "name": "Engines and fuel cells", "description": "The students describe and explain the thermodynamic and operating principles of internal combustion engines and all fuel cell types, identify the determining physical parameters for the operating regimes, the efficiencies and the polluting emissions, and compare the systems against each other. Content Operation principles of engines, mechanical (kinematics, dynamics) and thermodynamic principles (ideal cycles), diesel and spark ignition engines (combustion process, load regulation, noise analysis and prevention, electronics regulation, supercharging), characterization of combustion gases, pollutant formation, means and methods of emissions reduction, modeling (cycle modeling, time dependant combustion, sub-systems modeling), New concepts: hybrids systems, downsizing, direct injection, discussion.Construction and architecture of fuel cell families, for application at ambient and high temperature. Operating principles, thermodynamics and kinetics. Advantages and challenges, highlighting the efficiency (electrical, cogeneration, part-load). Fuel choice and fuel treatment (hydrogen, hydrocarbons). Aspects of modeling in fuel cells. Exercices with numerical exemples. Keywords Efficiency, cycles, emissions, modeling Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Thermodynamique et \u00e9nerg\u00e9tique I Heat and mass transfer Thermodynamique et \u00e9nerg\u00e9tique II Important concepts to start the course Master the concepts of mass, energy, and momentum balance, E1 Compute the thermodynamic properties of a fluid, E2 Master the concepts of heat and mass transfer, E3 Understand the main thermodynamic cycles, E5 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Compute the main thermodynamic transformations of compressible and incompressible fluids, E4Describe the involved thermodynamic cycles, E5Explain the concepts of thermodynamic efficiency, E6Design internal combustion engines, E16Compute fluid flows in energy conversion systems, pressure drops and heat losses, E10Design thermo-chemical and thermo-electric (fuel cells) conversion units, E19Explain the main emission sources of energy conversion processes, E25 Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Ex cathedra with frequent questions. Resolved exercices. Expected student activities Solve the exercises by yourself.Rehearse the previous course module for the following week Assessment methods Written exam, general knowledge questions and numerical resolution of exercices, on both course subjects (50% engines - 50% fuel cells). \u00a0 Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "MSE-463", "name": "Recycling of materials", "description": "Students understand the issues and key factors of a waste recycling process. They know the sorting and recycling technologies of various materials and are able to compare the environmental impact of recycling with that of using raw material resources. Content Why recycle: substitution effects Vital recycling chain Principles of recycling processes Recycling of metals Recycling of concrete Recycling of polymers and composites Recycling of paper and glass Recycling of WEEE Incineration and energy recovery Environmental impact and economics of recycling \u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design a recycling process to recover materials from wasteExplain the technical challenges to recycle plastics, composites, metals, etc.Compute Calculate the environmental impact of recycling and of raw material extractionDescribe the calculation of the cost of waste treatmentAssess / Evaluate recycling in an industrial environment Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Take responsibility for environmental impacts of her/ his actions and decisions.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Write a scientific or technical report.Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods Seminars and discussions, visits of companies and recycling sites Expected student activities - Participation to the course, seminars and visits - Group project on a selected topic (recycling of silicon from solar modules, recycling of textiles ...) Assessment methods The examination is in the form of a group project, which is evaluated with a \"1 slide\" oral presentation in english in the class and a written report in english. The final grade is the average of the following 5 grades : 1. Quality of the report (spelling, quality of the figures) 2. Bibliography (relevance of the information; all sources MUST be cited!) 3. Case study (data quality and novelty) 4. Synthesis and conclusions of the project 5. Quality of the 1-slide presentation (clarity, content and timing)"}
{"courseId": "COM-500", "name": "Statistical signal and data processing through applications", "description": "Building up on the basic concepts of sampling, filtering and Fourier transforms, we address spectral analysis, estimation and prediction, classification, and adaptive filtering, with an application oriented approach. Content 1. Fundamentals of Statistical Signal Processing :\u00a0Signals and systems from the deterministic and stochastic point of view. 2. Models, Methods, and algorithms :Parametric and non-parametric signal models (wide sense stationary, Gaussian, Markovian, auto regressive and white noise signals); Linear prediction and estimation (orthogonality principale and Wiener filter); Maximum likehood estimation and Bayesian a priori. 3. Statistical Signal Processing Tools for Spread Spectrum wireless transmission :Coding and decoding of information using position of pulses (annihilating filter approach); Avoiding interference with GPS(spectral mask and periodogram estimation); Spectrum estimation for classical radio transmissions (estimating frequencies of a harmonic signal). 4. Statistical Signal Processing Tools for the Analysis of Neurobiological Signals :Identification of spikes (correlation-bases methods); Characterization of multiple state neurons (Markovian models and maximum likelihood estimation); Classifying firing rates of neuron (Mixture models and the EM algorithm); Principal Component Analysis. 5. Statistical Signal Processing Tools for Echo cancellation :Adaptive filtering (least mean squares and recursive least squares). Keywords Statistical tools, spectral analysis, prediction, estimation, annihilating filter, mixture models, principal component analysis, stochastic processes, adaptive filtering, mathematical computing language (Matlab or similar). Learning Prerequisites Required courses Stochastic Models in Communications (COM-300), Signal Processing for Communications (COM-303). Recommended courses Mathematical Foundations of Signal Processing (COM-514). Important concepts to start the course Algebra, Fourier Transform, Z Transform, Probability, Linear Systems, Filters. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose appropriate statistical tools to solve signal processing problems;Analyze real data;Interpret spectral content of signals;Develop appropriate models for observed signals;Assess / Evaluate advantages and limitations of different statistical tools for a given signal processing problem. Teaching methods Ex cathedra with exercises, numerical examples, computer session. Expected student activities Attendance at lectures, completing exercises, testing presented methods with a mathematical computing language (Matlab or similar). Assessment methods Midterm exam enabling to get a bonus grade from 0 to 1 to be added to the final grade; Final exam enabling to obtain a final grade between 1 and 6."}
{"courseId": "MATH-106(en)", "name": "Analysis II (English)", "description": "The course studies fundamental concepts of analysis and the calculus of functions of several variables. Content -The Euclidean space R^n. -Vector functions and curves -Differentiation of functions of several variables. -Multiple integrals -Ordinary differential equations. \u00a0 Keywords Euclidean vector space, partial derivative,differential, Jacobian, Hessian, Taylor expansion, gradient, chain\u00a0 rule, implicit function theorem, Lagrange multipliers, multiple integrals, ordinary differential equation \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Analysis I, Linear Algebra I Important concepts to start the course -calculus of functions of one variable -concepts of convergence -vector space, matrices, eigenvalues Learning Outcomes The goal of this course consists as for Analysis 1 is that students acquire the following capacities:Consolidate the skills and knowledge they acquired in Analysis 1.Reasonrigorously and to analyse problemsChoose appropriate analytical tools for problem solving.Conceptualize problemsApplyefficiently mathematical concepts for problem solving by means of examples and exercisesAnalyzeand to solve new problems.Master the basic tools of analysisMaster the basic tools of elementary ordinary differential equations, the Euclidean space R^n and functions of several variables Teaching methods Ex cathedra lectures, exercises sessions in the classroom. \u00a0 Assessment methods Written exam Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Others Tutoring of exercises other measures to be defined"}
{"courseId": "MGT-414", "name": "Technology & innovation strategy", "description": "Students will learn core concepts that can make innovation projects more successful and profitable, and to then apply those concepts to real business cases of known successes and failures with a focus on the economic and organizational conditions that advance technological innovation by firms. Content This course introduces the student to the economic foundations of strategic management, and builds on those concepts to analyze the drivers of technological change, the sources of innovation, the role of incentives, the economics of information, the protections of intellectual property, and the importance of network effects and economies of scale. Building on the core concepts, the course then examines the strategic tradeoffs made by innovating companies related to decision making under uncertainty, tolerance for failure, the development of firm-specific human capital, the development of corporate culture, the timing of first-mover advantages and disadvantages, financing decisions, and alternative modes of competition and cooperation, including technology alliances, joint ventures, and corporate venture capital. Accordingly, the course objectives are three fold: (1) to develop an understanding of how innovations emerge and gain adoption in the marketplace; (2) to gain insights into how firms can transform themselves into effective innovators; and (3) to evaluate strategies and structures that enhance venture success. The course is particularly applicable for students interested in working for, or learning about, technology-oriented companies. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate strategies and structures that enhance success.Examine how innovations emerge and gain adoption in the marketplaceInvestigate theory and best practices associated with converting new ideas to new products, technologies and businessesAnalyze how firms can transform themselves into effective innovatorsCritique different theoretical perspectives on innovation Transversal skills Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Resolve conflicts in ways that are productive for the task and the people concerned.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Summarize an article or a technical report. Assessment methods Continuous control combining: 20% Class participation (individual) 20% Consulting report (individual) 10% Innovation report (individual) 20% Case analysis (group) 10% Midterm exam (during class) 20% Final exam (during exam period) \u00a0 Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Bibliography A reading list will be distributed at the beginning of the course. A case packet will be made available online for purchase. \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "BIO-501", "name": "Lab immersion I", "description": "The student will engage in a laboratory-based project in the field of molecular medicine, neuroscience or bioengineering. Student projects will emphasize acquisition of practical skills in experimentation and data analysis. Content A typical project will involve \"hands-on\" wetlab experimentation and data analysis, althoughtheoretical and computationally-oriented projects are also possible. The projects are available on the web sites of SV laboratories or discussed directly with a potential head of lab. The students are confronted with the realization of a laboratory-based project integrating specific aspects of molecular medicine or neuroscience.This project will allow them to apply, to concrete problems, skills of domain and transversal skills acquired during their studies. Lab immersion I can be replaced by an industry internship. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bachelor in Life Sciences & Technology Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manage an individual research projectDevelop expertise in a specific area of researchImplement appropriate technologies to address the scientific or engineering problem being studiedConduct experiments appropriate the specific problem being studiedAssess / Evaluate data obtained in wetlab and computational experimentsInterpret data obtained in wetlab and computational experimentsOptimize experimental protocols and data presentationPlan experiments to test hypotheses based on obtained results Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingDemonstrate a capacity for creativity.Write a scientific or technical report. Expected student activities Students will focus on hands-on experimentation, which may be wetlab-based or computer-based, depending on the project. Students will read and discuss assigned papers from the original cientific literature. As part of the evaluation process, students may be required to submit a written report or to give an oral presentation that summarizes and interprets their results. 16h/semaine de pr\u00e9sence en laboratoire pendant 14 semaines ou 5 semaines \u00e0 100% (42h/semaine). Peut \u00eatre pris durant les vacances d'\u00e9t\u00e9 ou au semestre d'automne Assessment methods Continuous control The mode of evaluation must be clearly defined and agreed between the student and the project mentor in advance.Typically the mode of evaluation will include a written report and /or an oral presentation prepared and delivered by the student."}
{"courseId": "COM-308", "name": "Internet analytics", "description": "Internet analytics is the collection, modeling, and analysis of user data in large-scale online services, such as social networking, e-commerce, search, and advertisement. This class explores a number of the key functions of such online services that have become ubiquitous over the past decade. Content The class seeks a balance between foundational but relatively basic material in algorithms, statistics, graph theory and related fields, with real-world applications inspired by the current practice of internet and cloud services. Specifically, we look at social & information networks, recommender systems, clustering and community detection, search/retrieval/topic models, dimensionality reduction, stream computing, and online ad auctions. Together, these provide a good coverage of the main uses for data mining and analytics applications in social networking, e-commerce, social media, etc. The course is combination of theoretical materials and weekly laboratory sessions, where we explore several large-scale datasets from the real world. For this, you will work with a dedicated infrastructure based on Hadoop & Apache Spark. \u00a0 Keywords data mining; machine learning; social networking; map-reduce; hadoop; recommender systems; clustering; community detection; topic models; information retrieval; stream computing; ad auctions Learning Prerequisites Required courses Stochastic models in communication (COM-300) Recommended courses Basic linear algebra Algorithms & data structures \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course Graphs; linear algebra; Markov chains; Java Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explore real-world data from online servicesDevelop frameworks and models for typical data mining problems in online servicesAnalyze the efficiency and effectiveness of these modelsdata-mining and machine learning techniques to concrete real-world problems Teaching methods Ex cathedra homeworks lab sessions Expected student activities Lectures with associated homeworks explore the basic models and fundamental concepts. The labs are designed to explore very practical questions based on a number of large-scale real-world datasets we have curated for the class. The labs draw on knowledge acquired in the lectures, but are hands-on and self-contained. Assessment methods Project 20%, midterm 30%, final exam 50%"}
{"courseId": "MGT-526", "name": "Supply chain management", "description": "This course introduces key concepts in supply chain management. It uses a combination of case studies, simulation exercises, formal lectures and group discussions to illustrate how the various concepts can be successfully implemented in practice. Content Designing the Supply Chain to Match Value (Ocado Case) Supply Chain Simulation Exercise (The Beer Game) Supply Chain Challenges (Philips Case) Leveraging Information Flows (7-11 Japan Case) Introduction to Inventory Control Models Designing for Supply-Chain-Responsiveness (Obermeyer Case) Supply Chain Portfolio Management (Hilti Case) Global Supply Chain Management Simulation Rebuilding the Logistics Platform (Lego Case) Outsourcing and Supplier Relationships (Freqon Case) Supply Chain Environmental Management (Unilever Case) Introduction to Supply Chain Finance (Nestl\u00e9 Russia Case) Mass Customization Challenges (mi-adidas Case) FINAL EXAM given during last class session Keywords Supply Chain Management, Case Studies and Inventory Control Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate Supply Chain Case ExamplesJudge Supply Chain Management PractisesAnalyze Decision AlternativesPropose Solution OptionsPresent Solution ApproachModel Inventory Control Problem Transversal skills Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingCommunicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Make an oral presentation.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods An important share of the course relies on case studies. The latter then serve as a basis for discussion in class, to reveal the key concepts and to provide theoretical perspective. Moreover, other tools such as simulation exercises, more formal introduction to supply chain theory, as well as some glimpse on recent trends in the field are used to introduce you to the supply chain management. Expected student activities Active class participation, group discussion, and class presentations. Assessment methods Continuous assessment combining: 25% on class participation 30% individual written assignments 45% final exam during the semester Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "CH-332", "name": "Medicinal chemistry", "description": "The course tends to provide fondamentals to the following question: why and how a chemical compounds become a drug?"}
{"courseId": "ME-476", "name": "Particle-based methods", "description": "This course provides an introduction to particle-based methods for the numerical resolution of partial differential equations describing continuum phenomena or for the simulation of particulate flows. Details are given for Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics (SPH) and the Discrete Element Method (DEM). Content Particle-based computational methods are being increasingly employed for solving a variety of problems in engineering and applied science. While such Lagrangian methods can yield significant advantages compared to traditional mesh-based methods, their accurate and efficient implementation also provides a number of challenges. This course presents the fundamental aspects of two methods: Smoothed Particle Hydrodynamics (SPH) is used to resolve partial differential equations, generally for convection-dominated fluid flows, and is based on the interpolation of field quantities around discrete points that are free to move in space. Discrete Element Method (DEM) is used for simulating granular and particulate flows and tracks particle motions and detects and models collisions between particles and with their environment. The course provides an introduction to these two methods and their domains of application (e.g. fluid and solid mechanics, computer graphics). The theoretical basis of each method, including specific aspects such as parallelization and visualization, is presented in introductory lectures. Following a literature search and private study, students give oral presentations on more advanced aspects. Exercises using open-source software and a mini-project provide practical experience in the application of these methods.\u00a0Illustrations of the use of particle-based methods is also provided by researchers from industry. Keywords Numerical simulation, Fluid and granular flow, Smoothed particle hydrodynamics, Discrete element method Learning Prerequisites Required courses Numerical analysis Discretization methods (e.g. finite differences, finite elements, finite volumes) Fluid and/or solid mechanics Important concepts to start the course Numerical simulation in fluid or solid mechanics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the difference between the Eulerian and Lagrangian approaches , AH20Identify the different steps in a numerical simulation (e.g. geometry and mesh generation, computation, post - processing) and integrate all the essential basic concepts in a numerical flow simulation , AH 23Describe different methods used to discretize differential equations, such as finite differences, finite elements, finite volumes, lattice Boltzmann, SPH , AH 30Perform a numerical simulation with appropriate software; understand the limits of each software in terms of its application domain and accuracy of the results obtained , AH41 Transversal skills Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsSummarize an article or a technical report.Make an oral presentation.Write a scientific or technical report.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals. Teaching methods Lectures, literature review, analysis of scientific articles, practical numerical simulations, mini-project Expected student activities Interactivity in the classroom Literature search and private study Oral presentations in groups and individually Mini-project (written report and oral presentation) Assessment methods Continuous evaluation by oral presentations (40%) and mini-project (60%) Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "EE-605", "name": "Statistical Sequence Processing", "description": "This course discusses advanced methods extensively used for the processing, prediction, and classification of temporal (multi-dimensional and multi-channel) sequences. In this context, it also describes key links between signal processing, linear algebra, statistics and artificial neural networks. Content 1. Introduction: Statistical (static and dynamic) pattern recognition, temporal pattern recognition problems, etc2. Basic tools in temporal pattern modeling: Correlation, autocorrelation, linear/nonlinear AR, ARMA and ARCH modeling3. Statistical pattern recognition: Bayes classifiers, artificial neural networks (ANNs), discriminant functions, Expectation-Maximization algorithm, dynamic programming4. Sequence processing: discrete Markov models, hidden Markov models (HMM), autoregressive (AR)-HMM, hybrid HMM/ANN systems, parameter estimation (EM and forward-backward algorithms applied to these models)5. Laboratory exercises: in statistical pattern recognition, autoregressive modeling, Markov models and hidden Markov models Note Course notes (and relevant book chapters) available: Keywords Statistical modeling, Markov models, hidden Markov models, artificial neural networks for sequence processing. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Undergraduate level statistics, linear algebra (matric computations, up to PCA) and minimum knowledge/interest in signal processing and machine learning. Programming in Matlab or similar."}
{"courseId": "ENG-603", "name": "Solid state image sensing", "description": "This course provides a complete overview over all types of solid state image sensors employed today, their operation, their properties and their limitations. Quantum detectors as well as thermal detectors are discussed, provided that they can be fabricated with semiconductor materials... Content 1. Optoelectronic properties of semiconductors. Interaction of light with silicon and selected compound semiconductors. Photodiodes. Modulation transfer function and responsivity. 2. The charge-coupled device (CCD) principle. Surface and buried channel CCD. CCD image sensors. CCD signal processing (transversal filtering, convolution image sensor, lock-in pixels for optical time-of-flight range imagesensing) 3. Photosensor output stages (amplifiers) and their noise properties. Noise reduction techniques. From CCD to CMOS image sensing with Active Pixel Sensors (APS). Photosensors with ultimate performance: Skipper CCD, double-gate FET CCD, CMD, avalanche multiplication in pixels and in imager output stages (Impactron), techniques for high-dynamic range imaging (multi-exposure, logarithmic and LinLog compression, etc.) 4. Human visual perception and video standards for black-and-white and color cameras. Unconventional photosensing principles: charge injection device (CID), bucket brigade device (BBD), position sensitive detectors (PSD), phototransistors, etc. 5. Photosensing with organic semiconductors: small molecules and polymers. Photocharge carrier transport mechanisms. Charge injection. Light emission and detection. Organic microelectronics and optoelectronics 6. Thermal radiation detectors for the infrared spectral range: Microbolometers, micro-thermocouples, CMOS-compatible IR detectors using free-carrier-absorption (FCA) and inter-subband interaction effects in silicon. 7. State-of-the-art photosensors and future developments in \"single-chip cameras\" and \"smart pixels\". Case studies of present-day optical measurement problems and their possible solution with advanced Photosensors. Keywords photosensing, image sensing, CMOS, CCD, semiconductors Learning Prerequisites Required courses 1. Physique g\u00e9n\u00e9rale I ' IV 2. Electronique I II Recommended courses M\u00e9thodes de d\u00e9tection optique Important concepts to start the course 1. Fundamentals of semiconductor physics. 2. Fundamentals of optics. 3. Basic elements of electronics. Teaching methods Every lesson includes the preliminary discussion of a few advanced problems that are not be solved directly in class; these problems are therefore given as take-home projects to student groups, who will present the information collected and their solution approach in five-minute briefs in one of the later lessons. Expected student activities To 80% of the given problems a correct written solution must be handed in Diligent and dutiful participation in the personal Q&A interviews during the lessons. Active contributions to the in-class brainstorming sessions. Assessment methods Detailed analysis of the written solutions to the given problems. Personal Q&A interviews of individual students during the lessons. Individual contributions of students during in-class brainstorming sessions."}
{"courseId": "MSE-425", "name": "Soft matter", "description": "The first part of this course encompasses the assembly of molecules into micro- and macroscopic materials and the influence of the structure of the resulting materials on their properties. The second part will focus on the production of colloids and their assembly into superstructures. Content Assembly of organic molecules: Repetition of intramolecular forces Self-assembly in liquids Thermotropic liquid crystals Lyotropic liquid crystals Micelles Vesicles Self-assembly at liquid-solid interfaces Brushes Polyelectrolytes Molecules in bulk Polymers Gels Colloids: Emulsions Foams Stabilization of colloids Assembly of colloids into superstructures Keywords soft materials, self-assembly, organic molecules, polymers, colloids Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design molecules that assemble into a desired superstructurePredict the influence of changes in the structure of molecules on their self-assembly behaviorEstimate the influence of the structure of soft materials on their propertiesModify surfaces to impart a desired functionality to themDesign stable emulsions and dispersionsDesign colloids with a tunable interparticle interactionDesign microscopic materials made from colloidal buildling blocks Teaching methods Exercises will be incorporated into the lectures Expected student activities Solving exercises Each student will do one project and orally presents it to the class. Assessment methods One student project, one written examination Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MATH-408", "name": "Advanced regression", "description": "A second course on regression modelling, dealing with nonlinear effects of explanatory variables, and non-normal, and non-independent response variables. Content Revision of linear regession and likelihood inference Fitting algorithms for nonlinear models and related diagnostics Generalised linear model; exponential families; variance and link functions Proportions and binary responses; logistic regession Count data and log-linear models; Poisson responses Overdispersion and quasilikelihood; estimating functions Longitudinal data Mixed models and random effects Other topics as time permits from: nonparametric regression; generalised additive models; survival data \u00a0 Keywords Binary response; Count data; Deviance; EM algorithm; Estimating function; Iterative weighted least squares algorithm; Likelihood; Logistic regression; Longitudinal data; Mixed model; Multinomial distribution; Overdispersion; Poisson distribution; Quasi-likelihood; Random effects Learning Prerequisites Required courses Knowledge of basic probability and statistics, at, for example, the levels of MATH-240 and MATH-230 Linear models (MATH-341) or equivalent Important concepts to start the course Linear regression; likelihood inference; R Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Develop theoretical elements needed in regression analysisApply the statistical package R to the analysis of dataAssess / Evaluate the quality of a model fitted to regression data, and suggest improvementsChoose a suitable regression model Transversal skills Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingWrite a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lectures; homework both theoretical and practical; mini-project Expected student activities Attending lectures; solving theoretical problems; solving applied problems using statistical software Assessment methods Written final exam; mini-project Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "CS-322", "name": "Introduction to database systems", "description": "This course provides a deep understanding of the concepts behind data management systems. It covers fundamental data management topics such as system architecture, data models, query processing and optimization, database design, storage organization, and transaction management. Content This course provides a deep understanding of the concepts behind data management systems. During this course, the students will learn about: The Entity-relationship and Relational Models Relational Algebra and Calculus The SQL Query Language Traditional and Modern Data Storage, File Organizations, and Indexing Hashing and Sorting Query Evaluation and Relational Operators Query Optimization Schema Refinement Transaction Management (Concurrency Control and Recovery) Homework Homeworks will be assigned to aid and assess comprehension of the above material. Homework will be either done using pen and paper or they will be programming exercises. During the semester the students will be asked to do a project to gain experience on how to build a database application, and to apply what they learn in class. Keywords databases, database design, data modeling, normalization, database management systems (DBMS), files, indexes, storage, external sorting, queries, query evaluation, query optimization, transactions, concurrency, recovery, SQL Learning Prerequisites Required courses Data structures Recommended courses For the practical part of the course (project) the following skills will be needed: System oriented programming, with focus on scripting languages to enhance the parsing process of raw data. Building user interfaces, either web (e.g., PHP, JSP, ASP, ...) or application GUI (e.g., java). Important concepts to start the course Before the beginning of the course students must be familiar with: Data structures Algorithms concepts Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Express application information requirementsUse a relational DBMSCreate a database on a relational DBMSDesign a database with a practical application in mindModel the data of an application using ER and relational modelingExplore how a DBMS performs its workReport performance and possible optimizations for applications using DBMSJustify design and implementation choices Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Write a scientific or technical report.Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods Ex cathedra; including exercises in class, practice with pen and paper or with a computer, and a project Expected student activities During the semester, the students are expected to: attend the lectures in order to ask questions and interact with the professor, attend the exercises session to solve and discuss exercises abou the recently taught material, work on a project during the semester which covers the practical side of building an application using a database system, take a midterm take a final exam Assessment methods Homework, project, written examinations and continuous control. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "ME-453", "name": "Hydraulic turbomachines", "description": "Master lecture on Hydraulic Turbomachines: impulse and reaction turbines,pumps and pump-turbines. Content Turbomachine equations, mechanical power balance in a hydraulic machines, moment of momentum balance applied to the runner/impeller, generalized Euler equation.Hydraulic characteristic of a reaction turbine, a Pelton turbine and a pump, losses and efficiencies of a turbomachine, real hydraulic characteristics.Similtude laws, non dimensional coefficients, reduced scale model testing, scale effects.Cavitation, hydraulic machine setting, operating range, adaptation to the piping system, operating stability, start stop transient operation, runaway.Reaction turbine design: general procedure, general project layout, design of a Francis runner, design of the spiral casing and the distributor, draft tube role, CFD validation of the design, design fix, reduced scale model experimental validation.Pelton turbine design: general procedure, project layout, injector design, bucket design, mechanical problems.Centrifugal pump design: general architecture, energetic loss model in the diffuser and/or the volute, volute design, operating stability. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Incompressible Fluids Mechanics Introduction to turbomachines Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Formulate the operating point of a hydraulic turbomachineSpecify a type of hydraulic turbineSketch the layout of a hydraulic turbomachineSelect appropriately the dimensions of a hydraulic turbomachine Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals. Teaching methods ex cathedra lectures with working case studies Expected student activities attendance at lectures completing exercises and reading written material Assessment methods written exam Resources Bibliography P. HENRY: Turbomachines hydrauliques - Choix illustr\u00e9 de r\u00e9alisation marquantes, PPUR, Lausanne, 1992. Franc, Avellan et al., Cavitation, EDP Grenoble, 1994 Handout and Scientifc Litterature from LMH, Industry, International Association \u00a0 Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Cavitation / FrancTurbomachines hydrauliques / Henry Notes/Handbook slides handout Handbook Websites http://lmh.epfl.ch/teaching"}
{"courseId": "MSE-629", "name": "Design and analysis of experiments in materials science and engineering", "description": "Provide the student with the skills and tools necessary for a wise and efficient orgqnization of his-her experimental work in all fields of materials science and technology (development, processing and caracterization of materials) Content Introduction: Experimental system; inputs and outputs; factors; treatments; tests; experience Optimization; problem solving\u00a0Refreshment of basic statistics: Descriptive statistics (statistical population, sampling, mean, standard deviation, standard distribution) Hypothesis testing (Type I and type II error risks) Statistical tests (Student's t-test, F- test, Khi-2 test)\u00a0Simple comparison designs: Comparing two data sets: differences between means, variance ratios Sensitivity and power: how many tests are required ? Randomization: how to prevent systematic effects of parasitic factors ?\u00a0Single factor designs: Statistical model Analysis of variance (ANOVA) Model adequacy checking (residuals analysis) Fully randomized vs randomized complete block designs Choice of sample size\u00a0Multifactorial designs: Main factor effects, interactions 2k factorial designs Single replica of multifactorial designs Partial multifactorial designs\u00a0Case studies: Building materials, metals and alloys, ceramics, composites Biomaterials (in vitro, in vivo and clinical experiments) \u00a0 Note Intensive one-week course. MS Excel spreadsheets used for practical work Keywords DOE, ANOVA, statistical analysis, experimental methodology Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basic statistics and materials science, MS Excel Assessment methods Written and oral test"}
{"courseId": "CS-490", "name": "Business design for IT services", "description": "We teach how to \"design\" an IT supported business initiative. We use insights from philosophy and psychology to concretely understand business models and analysis tools. Students work in groups on a project of their choice. Concrete fieldwork outside class and substantial readings are required. Content Individually, the students have to read the documents listed below. They make a synthesis of their contents. They need to apply the concepts presented in these documents on case studies and on their own project.\u00a0The students work, in groups, on a project. They:\u00a0(1) imagine a new (IT) service to develop,(2) identify and analyze the relevant segments,(3) validate their model with real customers and potential partners,(4) define the qualitative and quantitative goals for the new (IT) service. \u00a0To represent their business idea, the students use Trade Your Mind - a web-based business modelling service, Keywords Business services, IT services, business design, innovation in startups, revolutionary ventures and corporate initiatives; entrepreneur profiles.\u00a0Business design, service design, house of quality, SEAM modeling (eco-system, supplier-adopter relationship, motivation models)\u00a0Segmentation, value networks, PESTLE analysis, 5 forces analysis, core competency, coopetition, blue ocean, resource based modeling, transaction cost. Integrated marketing concept, SWOT analysis, strategy canvas. New technology adoption, crossing-the chasm, decision making units. Pricing strategy, cashflow management, break-event time Psychological types, epistemology, ontology, axiology (ethics and aesthetics). \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Create a precise and detailed description for a new business designAnalyze environmental as well as organizational factors in a business designDesign a business model in details (ecosystem, value, finance)Assess / Evaluate alternative business and technical strategiesSynthesize multiple marketing theories (from seminal publications)Represent the key concepts of a business design (ecosystem, value, finance)Interpret evidencesInvestigate innovative views of a business design Transversal skills Collect data.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Write a scientific or technical report.Make an oral presentation.Summarize an article or a technical report. Teaching methods Problem-based teaching group work"}
{"courseId": "ENV-715", "name": "Atmospheric Boundary Layer", "description": "This course covers the fundamental concepts, mathematical descriptions and physical interpretations of turbulent transport and energy exchange in the atmospheric boundary layer. The course includes eight chapters in total and requires some basic knowledge of fluid mechanics as the prerequisite."}
{"courseId": "CS-699(2)", "name": "Project 2 (EDIC)", "description": "Semester project in an IC laboratory."}
{"courseId": "MATH-625", "name": "Some problems in the theory of simple groups", "description": "The course will cover some applications of representation theory of simple groups to open problems in permutation actions, word maps, and algorithmic approaches to problems on linear groups."}
{"courseId": "ME-231(b)", "name": "Structural mechanics (for SV)", "description": "This course aims to provide a concise understanding of how materials and structures react to loads. It covers the basics of stress and strain in multi dimensions, deformation and failure criteria. The course is tailored to problems students from micro-engineering might encounter. Content For the details, please refer to lecture ME-231 (a)"}
{"courseId": "AR-402(w)", "name": "Studio MA2 (Escher et GuneWardena)", "description": "Intervention to one of two iconic architectural heritage sites of American modernity, respecting its historical, spatial and physical components, and providing an adequate response to the economic, cultural and social issues."}
{"courseId": "ME-499", "name": "Simulation and optimisation of industrial applications", "description": "This course deals with the principal techniques and basic methodology of simulation model building and analysis. Some important notions such as discrete event simulation and agent-based simulation will be taught in the course. Content - Different types of simulation techniques. - Understanding and using a simulation software (AnyLogic).\u00a0 - Simulation model building case studies such as manufacturing floor and supply chain, district heat network performance analysis.\u00a0 - Methodologies for output analysis and performance assessment - External tools for optimization - Team Project for the implementation of simulation case and performance analysis of their model. Keywords Simulation modelling, Agent-based simulation, Discrete event simulation, Performance analysis, AnyLogic simulation tool Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Production Management (Autumn semestre) Important concepts to start the course - Experience with computer - Good knowledge of general purpose programming languages, Java in preference. \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Categorize different types of simulation modelling technologiesUse a simulation toolDesign simulation model of different casesImplement the conceptual model using a simulation toolAnalyze the performance of the built modelApply their knowledge and skills to other contexts of simulation and analysis casesPerform optimisation according to chosen criteria Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsAccess and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Industrial case study examples, team project, Exercise sessions for learning a tool and building a case study model Assessment methods - Intermediary test: written, individual evaluation - Project and oral exam (team presentation) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-562", "name": "Biomicroscopy II", "description": "Introduction to the different contrast methods in optical microscopy. Basic hands-on experience with optical microscopes. How to investigate biological samples? How to obtain high quality images? Content Dark field and phase contrast microscopy, molecular spectroscopy, optical coherence tomography, aberrations and image quality, deconvolution, advanced microscopy (multiphoton, super-resolution). Hands-on experience with wide field and confocal microscopes. Keywords Optical microscopy and tomography, fluorescence spectroscopy, aberrations. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Advanced optics (MT) or Biomicroscopy I (SV). Recommended courses Analysis IV, Linear algebra, General physics III/IV. Important concepts to start the course Basic matrix calculations, Fourier transformation, electromagnetic waves, wide field and confocal microscopy. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose an appropriate imaging method for investigating the biological sample of interest.Estimate the performance and limitations of optical microscopes.Sketch the essential elements of optical microscopes.Operate wide field and confocal microscopes. Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods Lecturing with exercises (50%) and practice in the microscopy facility (50%). Expected student activities Following the lecturing and solving the exercises regularly is necessary for mastering the course contents. The solutions of the exercises are distributed at the next lecture. The student is invited to find his/her own solutions and to discuss them with the assistants. An active participation in the laboratory leads to the mastering of different microscopes. Assessment methods Continuous evaluation with exams on theory and practice. Support: manuscript of 2 sheets A4 (recto-verso). No calculators. Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes Others Possible to take dates. Resources Bibliography Geometrical and matrix optics: Jos\u00e9-Philippe P\u00e9rez, Optique: fondements et applications (2004). Eugene Hecht, Optics (2002). Miles V. Klein and Thomas E. Furtak, Optics (1986). Wave optics: Max Born and Emil Wolf, Principles of optics: electromagnetic theory of propagation, interference and diffraction of light (1980). Confocal microscopy: Min Gu, Principles of three-dimensional imaging in confocal microscopes (1996). Hayat, M.A. Microscopy, Immunohistochemistry, and Antigen Retrieval Methods for Light and Electron Microscopy. Kluwer Academic / Plenum Publishers (2002). Theory and Practice of histological techniques, ed. John D Bancroft, Marilyn Gamble, Churchill Livingstone). Handbook of Biological Confocal Microscopy, Pawley, James (Ed.), 3rd ed., 2006, XXVIII, 988 p., 545 illus., 236 in colour, Hardcover. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Handbook of Biological Confocal Microscopy / PawleyOptique : fondements et applications / P\u00e9rezOptics / HechtOptics / KleinPrinciples of optics: electromagnetic theory of propagation, interference and diffraction of light / BornPrinciples of three-dimensional imaging in confocal microscopes / GuMicroscopy, Immunohistochemistry / HayatBancroft's theory and practice of histological techniques / BancroftOptics / HechtOptics / Hecht Notes/Handbook The course slides are published on Moodle. Websites http://www.olympusmicro.com/http://zeiss-campus.magnet.fsu.edu/tutorials/index.html Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/enrol/index.php?id=411"}
{"courseId": "MSE-443(b)", "name": "Modelling problem solving, computing and visualisation II", "description": "Covers development and design of models for materials processes and structure-property relations. Emphasizes techniques for solving equations from models or simulating and visualizing behavior. Topics include symmetry, structure, thermodynamics, solid state physics, mechanics, and data analysis. Content Development of Models, Solutions, and Visualization Symmetry and Structure of Materials Elasticity and Fracture Mechanics Monte Carlo Methods Molecular Dynamics Methods Data Analysis Solid State Physics Keywords Materials science, modeling, visualization, simulations Learning Prerequisites Required courses MSE 443(a) Important concepts to start the course At least intermediate level programming with Mathematica. At least intermediate level knowledge of core materials science topics, calculus, linear algebra. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze models of materials science phenomenaVisualize results of solutions and simulationsModel materials science phenomena Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking Teaching methods Flipped classroom with programming exercises, extemporaneous lectures. Expected student activities Students will complete exercises and asked to demonstrate their work to the rest of the class. Students will need to work on exercises outside of class and present their work to the rest of the class. Students will develop three projects with formal demonstrations to the class and instructors. Assessment methods Grades will be given on project demonstrations and examples of programming in class. Supervision Office hours Yes"}
{"courseId": "CH-709", "name": "Frontiers in Organic Synthesis. Part III Stereochemistry", "description": "The objective of this course is for the student to become aware of the huge progress that have been made recently in the field of stereochemistry, which will allow for the first time complex targets to be synthesized efficiently. Content Following topics will be examined in this course:- Modern methods for the stereoselective synthesis of polyketides builiding blocks'\u00a0\u00a0 Stereoselective oxidation methods'\u00a0\u00a0 Selective introductions of nitrogen into organic molecules'\u00a0\u00a0 Stereoselective C-C bond forming reactions'\u00a0\u00a0 Synthesis of non-natural alpha and beta amino acids'\u00a0\u00a0Chiral diversity through stereoselective multi-components reactions. \u00a0(General Concept of the Lecture Series: A thorough knowledge and understanding of chemical transformations is essential for the synthetic chemist. In this course series, the student will become familiar with the recent methodological developments in organic chemistry. With the tools of modern chemistry, they will be able to design new efficient, economical and environmentally friendly reactions and synthesis. Every student will be assigned a specific topic of research. He will be expected to make a thorough literature research on his subject, including pioneering works, state of the art and most recent developments. He will present his results to the class and the instructor and organize a short exercise session on the topic for the class.) Part III: Stereochemistry. Many natural bioactive compounds have complicated structure with several well-defined stereocenters. In contrast to this complexity, many drugs have still very simple tridimensional structures. The main reason for this discrepancy is the lack of stereoselective and efficient methods for the synthesis of complexe tridimensional structures. The objective of this course is for the student to become aware of the huge progress that have been made recently in this field, which will allow for the first time complex targets to be synthesized efficiently. Note Next session Spring 2019 (spread dates) oral exam based on the exercise sessions following the talks Keywords Stereochemistry, Stereoselective Reaction, Chiral Molecules, Complexe Structures, Cascade Reactions"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-504", "name": "Photonic micro- and nanosystems", "description": "This course aims at providing engineering and design guidelines for selected Photonic Micro- and Nanosystems. In particular, Optical MEMS and Integrated Photonics will be reviewed. Standard fabrication processes and related design approaches will be introduced and product aspects will be discussed. Content Introduction: Course Overview; Review of Relevant Optics, Fabrication Technologies, MEMS/NEMS Actuation Mechanisms; Fiber vs. Waveguide vs. Free Space; Integrated Optics Material Systems and Wavelengths. Micromirrors, Scanners, Projectors, Displays: Reflective Coatings, Distributed Bragg Reflectors, High Contrast Gratings; Mechanical and Optical Design Constraints and Tradeoffs; Scanning and Projection Systems based on Micromirrors; Interference Modulator Display; MEMS Shutter Display; Design Tradeoffs (Angle, Size, Speed, Resolvable Spots, Optical Throughput, Power'). Spatial Light Modulators: Technologies, Performance and Applications: Liquid crystal, MEMS, Micro Mirrors, Grating light valve (GLV), Magneto Optic, Quantum Well, Optical Phased Arrays. Photonic Switches: Telecommunication Applications, Definition of Key Performance Figures, 2D Switches, Wavelength Selective Switches, Optical Cross Connects Tunable Lasers: Tuning Mechanisms and Configurations, Design and Performance (Noise, Power, Tuning Range, Linewidth, Response Time, ') Microspectrometers, Filters, Sensors: Dispersive Systems, Gratings, FTIR, Fabry P\u00e9rot Filters, Resonant Cavity Enhanced Detectors, Sensors. Silicon Photonics: Platforms and `Standard' Fabrication Processes, Waveguide Design, Loss Mechanisms, Grating Couplers, Edge Couplers, Adiabatic Couplers, Source, Modulator, Detector, Interferometers, Switches, Polarization Rotators, Combiners, Splitters, Resonators, Filters; Silicon Photonic Switches. Integrated Photonic Systems: Promise of integration; Transceivers and LIDAR-on-Chip example systems. Engineering Approaches for Photonic Micro- and Nanosystems: Process and Design, Fab vs. Fabless, Commercially Available Standard Processes (MPW, MUMPs, MOSIS, CMOS, Review of MEMS / SiPh Foundries), Design Tool Examples, Pricing, Scheduling. Photonic System Packaging: Assembly Strategies, Interfaces: Optical, Electrical, Thermal, Mechanical, Hermeticity. Keywords Optical MEMS, MOEMS, Silicon Photonics, Microspectrometers, Spatial Light Modulators. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Micro-331 ' Technologie des Microstructures I (or equivalent) Recommended courses Micro-321, 322 ' Ing\u00e9nierie Optique (or equivalent) Micro-330 ' Capteurs\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Micro-431 ' Microstructures Technology II Important concepts to start the course Microfabrication Techniques Optics Basics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the working principle of the discussed photonic micro- and nanosystemsAnalyze a given photonic microsystem with respect to its design constraintsDiscuss potential fabrication processes for a given photonic microsystemPropose a design for a photonic microsystemAssess / Evaluate design tradeoffs for miniaturized optical systemsPropose a design for a silicon photonic integrated circuit Teaching methods The lecture will be given ex cathedra. Exercices and design examples will be discussed for selected systems. Short experiments will demonstrate selected particularities of spatial light modulators. A selection of scientific papers will be distributed and discussed. Expected student activities Attend lectures, read the course material, participate actively during discussions. Assessment methods Oral examination at the end of the course."}
{"courseId": "ENG-431", "name": "Safety of chemical processes", "description": "The focus of the lecture is on thermal process safety, but explosion protection, design of risk reducing measures, as well as their reliability analysis are considered. While being based on theory, the lecture is oriented towards industrial practice. Content Thermal process safety, systematic procedure for the assessment of thermal risks, analysis of incidents Fundamental aspects of thermal safety, calorimetric methods Decomposition reactions, characterisation, autocatalytic reactions, heat accumulation conditions Safe chemical reactors: criteria for the choice of the best suited reactor type and design Technical aspects of process safety, choice of risk reducing measures Safety of physical unit operations, explosions\u00a0 Reliability of technical systems Keywords Runaway reaction risk assessment explosion reliability Learning Prerequisites Required courses Risk Management Recommended courses Thermochemistry Reaction kinetics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate thermal risksPropose risk reducing measuresDesign an experimental planCharacterize a runaway reactionExploit calorimetric measuresIdentify explosion risksDiscuss reliability of protection measures Transversal skills Take account of the social and human dimensions of the engineering profession.Take responsibility for health and safety of self and others in a working context. Teaching methods The course is given as a series of lectures. Case studies prepared by the students will be used to introduce each topic. Some exercises will be done during the lecture, others will be left for the student to do on its own. Solutions to all exercises will be provided. Assessment methods The final grade will be the combination of the case study presentations (10%) and the final written exam (90%)."}
{"courseId": "MATH-232", "name": "Probabilities and statistics", "description": "A basic course in probability and statistics Content Revision of basic set theory and combinatorics. Elementary probability: random experiment; probability space; conditional probability; independence. Random variables: basic notions; density and mass functions;\u00a0examples including Bernoulli, binomial, geometric, Poisson, uniform, normal; mean, variance,\u00a0\u00a0correlation and covariance; moment-generating function; joint distributions, conditional and marginal distributions; transformations. Many random variables: notions of convergence; laws of large numbers; central limit theorem; delta method; applications. Descriptive statistics: basic graphs and statistics; notions of robustness. Statistical inference: different types of estimator and their properties and comparison; confidence intervals; hypothesis testing; likelihood inference and statistical modelling; Bayesian inference and prediction; examples.\u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Analyse I, II Alg\u00e8bre lin\u00e9aire Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Construct confidence intervals for inference under uncertaintyContrast probability models and dataDerive probabilities and other properties of random samplesCompute probabilities based on simple combinations of logical statementsInfer characteristics of probability models from empirical dataCompute measures of location, scale and association for simple datasetsFormulate probability models appropriate for simple problemsInterpret data through simple graphics Teaching methods Ex cathedra lectures, exercises and problems Assessment methods Quizzes, mid-term test, final exam Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes Resources Bibliography Ross, S. (2012) A first course in probability (9th edition). \u00a0Pearson. Aussi disponible en traduction fran\u00e7aise (PPUR): `Initiation aux probabilit\u00e9s'. \u00a0 A polycopi\u00e9 of the course notes, with the problems etc., will also be available. \u00a0 Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=14411"}
{"courseId": "BIO-676", "name": "Practical - Fellay Lab", "description": "Exploration of human genetic variation in large-scale sequencing data. Content Students will be asked to access large-scale data from sequenced human exomes, to focus on one gene (or pathway) of interest, and to catalog and describe all variants present in the study population. The potential associations between the identified variants and clinically relevant phenotypes will also be explored. Note Note that while the course is open to all first year EPFL doctoral students, priority will be given to EDMS students, given that they are mandated to take three of EDMS practical modules. Note also that doctoral students from the Fellay laboratory cannot take this course. Access is limited to 2 students. Keywords Human genomics, bioinformatics. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Knowledge in genetics and bioinformatics. Assessment methods Project report."}
{"courseId": "MSE-646", "name": "CCMX Winter School - Metal Science", "description": "This course is designed to cover a series of important scientific aspects of metal science and to provide an in-depth review of their corresponding fundamentals. It is organised as a retreat over one week, with 9 modules consisting of presentations given by lecturers and the participants. Content Nucleation of solids from the liquid phase X-ray diffraction during deformation of metals Normal and abnormal grain growth in thin films Failure analysis by microscopy methods Solute Strengthening in fcc Metals Interface thermal conductance Recrystallization, grain structures and mechanical behaviour Fe-based shape memory alloys ' Design, properties and applications Important aspects to be considered in industrial applications \u00a0 The course is organised as a 5 day retreat to allow for extensive informal interactions. Note Please register also with CCMX Keywords nucleation, growth, alloys, thin film, texture, dislocations, yield stress, interface thermal conductance, recrystallization, phase transformation Learning Prerequisites Required courses Participants should be educated in materials science and engineering, physics, mechanical engineering or physical chemistry to benefit the most from this course. Assessment methods Oral presentation (prepared based upon a series of publications provided by the lecturers"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-452", "name": "Mobile robots", "description": "The course teaches the basics of autonomous mobile robots. Both hardware (energy, locomotion, sensors) and software (signal processing, control, localization, trajectory planning, high-level control) will be tackled. The students will apply the knowledge to program and control\u00a0quad rotors. Content \u00a0 History of mobile robotics Applications, products and market Introduction to quadrotors dynamics and control Sensors Perception, feature extraction Coping with uncertainties Markov localization: Bayesian filter, Monte Carlo localization, extended Kalman filter Navigation: path planning, obstacle avoidance Control architectures and robotic frameworks Current challenges in mobile robotics Locomotion principles and control Embedded electronics \u00a0 Keywords mobile robots, sensing, perception, navigation, locomotion, drones. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose the right methods to design and control a mobile robot for a particular task.Integrate approriate methods for sensing, cognition and actuationJustify design choices for a robotic systemImplement perception, localisation/navigation and control methods on a mobile robot Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsMake an oral presentation. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, exercises, work on mobile robots, mini projects, oral presentations Expected student activities weekly lectures studying provided additional materials lab exercises with practical components mini-project: Pick a topic, design a robotic system, and present results to the class Assessment methods Written exam \u00a0Mini-project presentation Supervision Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-630", "name": "Advanced experimental methods in condensed matter and nanophysics", "description": "The objective of the course is to expose PhD students to experimental measurement techniques and principles applied in front end research of condensed matter and nanophysics. Besides providing a solid background, it will focus on the crucial details which will make cutting edge experiments work."}
{"courseId": "ChE-601(a)", "name": "Leading research in Chemical Engineering (a)", "description": "Lectures from leading members in Chemical Engineering on: Catalysis, nanotechnology, material synthesis, process engineering, separations, energy, green chemistry, biotechnology, biocatalysis, systems biology and polymer systems. Content Concepts covered by external lecturers who are leading experts in the field of chemical engineering will include experimental and computational techniques in the fields of: Catalysis Photovoltaics and photocatalysis Solar fuels CO2 capture and sequestration Systems biology Metabolic engineering Synthetic biology Surface science Nanotechnology Materials synthesis Polymer systems Learning outcomes: To have a better grasp\u00a0 of the leading research being done in the field of chemical engineering and understand the level of research done by leaders in the field. Note Fall and Spring semester (starting Fall 2017 ) Enrolment: edch@epfl.ch Keywords Chemical engineering,catalysis, nanotechnology, material synthesis, process engineering, separations, energy, green chemistry, biotechnology, biocatalysis, systems biology and polymers systems. \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course MA2 level"}
{"courseId": "ENV-426", "name": "Fluvial biogeosciences", "description": "Students will understand basic physical, chemical and biological processes in streams and rivers, and how they relate to the integrity of these ecosystems and to water resources. Content The class will provide insights into basic physical and chemical processes of stream and river ecosystems, which will be linked with ecosystem processes and the microbial life therein. At the end of the class, acquired knowledge will be converged into a discussion on ecological restoration strategies and the management of water resources in a rapidly changing environment. The class (28 h) will encapsulate the following units: Introduction and rationale ' why fluvial biogeosciences? Basic concepts in stream and river science Streams and rivers are global players ' from water resources to biogeochemistry Basic geomorphology and hydrodynamics Organic matter and nutrients Ecosystem metabolism ' linking carbon and nutrient cycling Microbial biofilms ' the major players in stream and rivers Biogeosciences for environmental engineers and scientists The practical work (14 h) will convey insights into the measurement of metabolism (gross primary production and respiration) of stream ecosystems. Determining metabolism is equivalent to taking the pulse of the ecosystem and informs on its ecological integrity. Furthermore, it links inorganic nutrient and carbon cycling. Students will learn on a weekly basis how to design, plan and carry out a small research project; this requires the regular presence of the students to conduct fieldwork, lab work and computer exercises. The project will be led by Dr. Amber Ulseth and Dr. Hannes Peter, and assisted by the Doctoral Assistants David Scheidweiler and Marta Boix Canadell. Keywords biogeosciences, streams and rivers, hydrodynamics, biogeochemistry, ecosystem science, microbial ecology, biofilms, nutrient cycling, metabolism, restoration, management Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses The BSc Class Aquatic Ecosystems (ENV-321) would be an asset. Important concepts to start the course A basic understanding of fluvial ecosystems, hydrology, geomorphology and hydraulics would be helpful. \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Report on their project on fluvial biogeosciencesAssess / Evaluate critical environmental issues related to stream ecosystemsTheorize basic concepts in fluvial biogeosciencesAssess / Evaluate stream biofilm structure and functionAssess / Evaluate ecological restoration strategiesGeneralize theory in fluvial biogeosciencesCarry out simple experiments in fluvial biogeosciences Teaching methods power point, black board, hand-on in the lab and in the field, computer exercises Expected student activities Interactions and discussions with teachers feedback and respond to questions feeback in an appropriate manner on the content and its presentation conduct a supervised small research project\u00a0 report on the methods and results from the practical work Assessment methods written exam (70%) project - active work in the lab, field and report (30%) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Others office hours: Tuesday 11:00 to 12:00 (Prof Battin) assistants: Dr Amber Ulseth and Dr Hannes Peter"}
{"courseId": "CH-313", "name": "Biochemistry II", "description": "The goal of this class is an introduction into the organic chemistry of biological pathways. Students will learn the common mechanisms in biological chemistry as they are found in primary and secondary metabolism. Content This class discusses the organic chemistry of biological pathways. Students will learn the common mechanisms in biological chemistry as their are found in primary and secondary metabolism. First, basic concepts of enzyme catalsis and the mechanisms of the main biological cofactors will be discussed. Subsequently, specific pathways from the fields of carbohydrate metabolism, lipid metabolism, amino acid metabolism, nucleotide metabolism \u00a0and the biosynthesis of some natural products will be discussed. Keywords biological pathways, metabolism, cofactors, enzyme catalysis, biosynthesis of natural products. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Biochemistry I and introductory classes into organic chemistry. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Classify the different biological cofactors used by enzymesDefine the main metabolic pathwaysSketch a reaction mechanism for a biological transformationHypothesize which cofactors will be used in a given biological transformationPropose experiments to investigate reaction mechanismsDescribe the main features of carbohydrate metabolismExplain the main features of polyketide biosynthesisDesign mechanism-based inhibitors for selected enzymes Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Ex cathedra. The blackboard will be used as well as power-point presentations. Expected student activities Students are expected to take detailed notes and work on problems distributed in the class. Assessment methods Written exam Supervision Others Students are welcomed to contact Kai Johnsson via email to fix appointments."}
{"courseId": "MICRO-602", "name": "Micro-magnetic field sensors and actuators", "description": "The course provides the basis to understand the physics, the key performance, and the research and industrial applications of magnetic sensors and actuators. Together with a detailed introduction to magnetism, several magnetic sensors and actuators are studied. Content 1. Basics of magnetostatics \u00a0 Maxwell laws. Magnetostatic. Magnetic dipoles and currents. Equations in matter. Calculations methods for magnetostatics. Magnetic field concentration. Magnetic screening. Eddy currents. Skin and proximity effect. Phenomenological description of matter. Diamagnetism. Paramagnetism. Ferromagnetism. Material conductivity under electric and magnetic fields. \u00a0 2. Sensors & Actuators (principles and selected topics) \u00a0 Basic principles, design and characteristics of following selected sensors and actuators: \u00a0 Micromachined sensors. Hall effect devices. Anisotropic (AMR) and giant (GMR) magneto resistors. Flux-gates Microsystems. Magnetic resonance methods (NMR and ESR) and their applications in magnetometry, spectroscopy and imaging. Magnetic force microscopy (MFM). \u00a0 Discussion of following topics: sensitivity, noise, accuracy, magnetic field resolution, electronic interfaces, applications. \u00a0 3. Case studies \u00a0 Study and discussion of examples of micro-magnetic sensors from the current scientific literature that illustrate the usefulness of the previously introduced concepts. Opportunities for scaling down, integration, and new applications. Keywords Magnetostatics, Hall effect devices, magnetic resonance, magnetometry, magnetic sensors"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-437", "name": "Diffraction methods in structural biology", "description": "Give the student a solid background in protein crystallography and electron microscopy. Explain relevant aspects of 3D Fourier analysis and geometrical interpretation of diffraction. Discuss limitations of models obtained by X-ray crystallography and electron microscopy. Content - Introduction Scattering of X-rays and electrons by biological materials. Structure of biomolecules. - Diffraction and Fourier transforms Fourier series and transforms. Convolution products. Applications of the convolution theorem in diffraction methods. - Macromolecular X-ray crystallography Diffraction of X-rays by crystals. Experimental aspects: Crystallization of proteins. X-ray sources and detectors. X-ray diffraction data collection. Methods for phase determination in protein crystallography. Interpretation and validation of atomic models obtained by crystallography. - Electron diffraction and microscopy Electron diffraction from 2d crystals. Single-particle imaging. 3D image processing. Keywords Protein crystallography, electron microscopy, protein structure, DNA, diffraction, Fourier transform Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basic course in Physics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate quality of atomic model of a proteinConstruct Ewald's sphereDescribe diffraction experiment setupExamine protein structure using an advanced graphics programEstimate solvent content of a protein crystalDistinguish normal and anomalous X-ray scatteringCreate 3D model from 2D projectionsExplain the relationship between the diffraction pattern and the crystal Transversal skills Write a scientific or technical report.Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods Course ex cathedra and exercises Expected student activities Oral presentation 3-4 homework Assessment methods oral"}
{"courseId": "BIO-617", "name": "Practical - G\u00f6nczy Lab", "description": "Give students a feel for some of the approaches pursued to understand mechanisms underlying cell division processes, primarily in C. elegans embryos but also in other systems, including human cells in culture. Content Students will conduct experiments (time-lapse microscopy, indirect immunofluorescence microscopy, ...) that should allow them to formulate a reasonable hypothesis about the function of a mystery gene that will be assigned to them. Note Note that while the course is open to all first year EPFL doctoral students, priority will be given to EDMS students, given that they are mandated to take three EDMS practical modules. Note also that doctoral students from the G\u00f6nczy laboratory cannot take this course. Access is limited to 4 students. Keywords Cell division, C. elegans, human cells, developmental biology, genetics, functional genomics. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses None"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-622", "name": "Principles and Practicals in X-Ray Scattering", "description": "This course aims at introducing PhD students and junior scientists to the various applications of modern X-ray diffraction. The course starts with a refresher on symmetry and diffraction and, subsequently, each speaker builds up on this basis and develops his/her field. Content Refresher Symmetry (Gervais Chapuis)Refresher Diffraction (P\u00ebtr Leiman) Refresher Properties of X-ray and Safety (Phil Pattison)Single Crystals (Kurt Schenk)Powders (Kurt Schenk) Pair Distribution Function (Radovan Cern\u00fd) Line Broadening (Radovan Cern\u00fd) Crystal Optics (Dieter Schwarzenbach)LAUE's Method (Gervais Chapuis) Raman Spectroscopy and X-ray Diffraction (Vladimir Dmitriev) Diffuse Scattering (Dmitry Chernsyhov) Neutrons (Phil Pattison) Synchrotron radiation (Phil Pattison) DEBYE-Scattering and Nanocrystals (Antonio Cervellino) Phase Transitions (Michel Bonin) Thin Films and Coatings (Antonia Neels) High Resolution X-Ray Diffraction (Antonia Neels) Electron back-sacttered Diffraction (Emmanuelle Boehm-Coujault) Magnetic Structures (Henrik R\u00f8nnow, Oksana Zaharko) \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-600", "name": "Frederic Joliot/Otto Hahn Summer School on nuclear reactors Physics, fuels and systems", "description": "The School's aim is to address the challenges of reactor design and optimal fuel cycles, and to broaden the understanding of theory and experiments. The programme of each School session is defined by the International FJOH Scientific Board. Content The contents of each FJOH-SS session, while following the general objectives outlined above, vary from year to year, as does also the list of invited lecturers, each of whom is selected by the School's executive board on the basis of the person's international renown as expert on the topic addressed. Decision of the contents of each FJOH-SS session is made a year in advance at the annual meeting of the executive board. Note Next course, please see the web site link below. Enrolling in this course requires payment of fees and/or expenses by the laboratory of the doctoral candidate. Prior approval of these expenses by the laboratory director is required before enrolling. Keywords Fission energy, reactor physics, nuclear fuels, advanced systems, nuclear safety, fuel cycles Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Master's level degree in Physics, Chemistry, Materials, Engineering, etc., with some knowledge of nuclear energy systems"}
{"courseId": "MATH-472", "name": "Computational finance", "description": "Participants of this course will be exposed to computational techniques frequently used in mathematical finance applications. Emphasis will be put on the implementation and practical aspects. Content 1. Transformation based methodsDerivatives pricing via Fourier transforms and the saddlepoint method.2. Option pricing via PDE modelsFinite difference approximation of Black-Scholes PDE.American options and free boundary problems.Jump-diffusion processes and integro-differential equations.3. Numerical optimizationModel calibration in financial applications, portfolio optimization.Linear optimization techniques.Gradient descent techniques and constrained optimization. Important: This course is concerned with computational tools used in mathematical finance. It is not to be understood as an introduction into mathematical finance. Keywords derivatives pricing, numerical methods, Matlab, optimization, PDE, Fourier transform, saddle point approximation, calibration, volatility surface Learning Prerequisites Required courses Stochastic processes / stochastic calculus Recommended courses Numerical AnalysisIntroduction to Finite ElementsDerivatives Important concepts to start the course Basic background in numerical analysis, linear algebra, and differential equations.Command of Matlab. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose method for solving a specific pricing or calibration problem.Implement numerical algorithms.Interpret the results of a computation.Recall the advantages and limitations of different methods.Assess / Evaluate the performance of several financial models.Compare the results from different pricing algorithms. Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture, exercises in the classroom and with computer. Expected student activities Attendance of lectures.Completing exercises.Solving problems on the computer. Assessment methods Computer-based final examination. 20% of the grade are determined by take-home exams / graded exercises."}
{"courseId": "MATH-332", "name": "Applied stochastic processes", "description": "This course introduces the theory of stochastic processes including Markov chains in discrete and continuous time, Poisson processes, and renewal processes. The use of these processes is illustrated in various areas of applications. Content Stochastic processes occur in finance as models for asset prices, in telecommunications as models for data traffic, in computational biology as hidden Markov models for gene structure, in chemistry as models for reactions, in manufacturing as models for assembly and inventory processes, in biology as models for the growth and dispersion of plant and animal populations, in speech pathology and speech recognition and many other areas.\u00a0 This course introduces the theory of stochastic processes including Markov chains in discrete and continuous time, Poisson processes, and renewal processes. These processes are illustrated using examples from real-life situations. It then considers important applications in areas such as biology and genetics, queues and queueing networks (the foundation of telecommunication models), as well as in Bayesian statistics through the Markov chain Monte Carlo method. \u00a0 Keywords discrete-time Markov chain, continuous-time Markov chain, stationary distribution, Poisson process, renewal process, branching process, epidemic process, queueing models, Markov chain Monte Carlo. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: understand the basic concepts of random processes in discrete and continuous timeacquire an appreciation of how randomness and variability in time can be mathematically described using probability theorybe able to build, analyze and simulate basic stochastic models for simple real-life random phenomena evolving in time Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-710", "name": "Structure and evolution of galaxies (UNIGe)", "description": "This course aims at providing a synthetic vision of the present state of knowledge on galaxies, which presents rapid changes thanks to recent technology development, both on the observational and computational aspects. The course plans to describe the world of galaxies from close to far away. Content Solar vicinity in the Milky WayMilky Way as a galaxy (spiral structure, bar bulb, center, exterior disk and haloThe local groupThe local superclusterGlaxy clusterLarge scale structures\u00a0Are also presented :The general properties of galaxies according to their Hubble typeThe main physical mechanisms (stellar formation, nucleosynthesis)Dark matter\u00a0Lecturer : Prof. Daniel Pfenniger, Observatoire de Gen\u00e8ve"}
{"courseId": "MATH-450", "name": "Numerical integration  of stochastic differential equations", "description": "In this course we will introduce and study numerical integrators for stochastic differential equations. These numerical methods are important for many applications. Content Introduction to stochastic processes\u00a0 Ito calculus and stochastic differential equations\u00a0 Numerical methods for stochastic differential equations (strong and weak convergence, stability, etc.) Stochastic simulations and multi-level Monte-Carlo methods \u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Numerical Analysis, Advanced probability Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze the convergence and the stability properties of stochastiques numerical methodsImplement numerical methods for solving stochastic differential equationsIdentify and understand the mathematical modeling of stochastic processesManipulate Ito calculus to be able to perfom computation with stochastic differential equationsChoose an appropriate numerical method to solve stochastic differential equations Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture, exercises in classroom \u00a0 \u00a0 Assessment methods Written examination Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "BIO-479", "name": "Immunology", "description": "The students acquire knowledge regarding the fundamental aspects of the invertebrate and vertebrate immune response. Students apply this knowledge during team-based exercises and oral presentations. Content Each subject will be introduced by a lecture and followed by i) a presentation and discussion of a seminal publication by a student and in some cases ii) group exercises designed to test knowledge and promote conceptual thought. Topics will include: Historical advances in immunology Innate immune recognition Developmental immunology Immunological methods T cell subset differentiation and function Immunity to infectious agents (bacteria, fungi, parasites and viruses) Mucosal immunology Immune cell migration Allergy Autoimmunity Evolutionary immunology \u00a0 Keywords immune cell subsets cellular migration cell-cell interactions infectious diseases inflammatory diseases cellular function pathogen recognition mucosa innate immunity adaptive immunity Learning Prerequisites Required courses Biologie I, II, Biologie Mol\u00e9culaire et Cellulaire I. Recommended courses Biologie Mol\u00e9culaire et Cellulaire II & III. Important concepts to start the course cellular biology pathogens Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Recall Recall fundamental knowledge of the immune responsePredict Predict the necessary components of a protective immune response against a defined pathogenPropose Propose novel therapeutic approaches to immune-mediated inflammatory diseasesModel Model the dynamic movement immune cells subsets within and between organsCharacterize Characterize organ-specific immune responsesAssess / Evaluate Assess the scientific value of a hypothesisCritique Critique a scientific articleAssess / Evaluate Evaulate the value and accuracy of a recent scientific reportcUse Use available resources to generate an oral report on a immunological topic Transversal skills Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Make an oral presentation.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsAccess and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Summarize an article or a technical report. Teaching methods Lectures Group excerises (problem solving, model building, project proposals) Preperation and oral presentations of topics and of scientific articles \u00a0 Expected student activities revision of course content presentation of scientific topic summarization and presentation of a scientific article group activities (problem solving) and group presentations assesment of student presentations paritcipation in group discussions"}
{"courseId": "MSE-465", "name": "Thin film fabrication processes", "description": "The students will learn about the essential chemical, thermodynamic and physical mechanisms governing thin film growth, about the most important process techniques and their typical features, including process-microstructure relationships. Content * Introduction (Samples, applications, importance, history, overview). * Major deposition methods with examples and typical applications: - evaporation - introduction to cold plasmas - sputter processes - reactive plasma processes - chemical vapour deposition (CVD) - plasma enhanced CVD - further methods including\u00a0plasma surface treatments * Nucleation and growth models * Examples throughout the chapters on hard coatings, microelectronics, display technology, optics, coatings on polymers Keywords condensation from a vapour Plasma and thermal activation thin film growth models non-equilibrium and equilibrium processes Ion bombardment Film morphology and micrstructure wetting angle Ad-atoms Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basics courses on thermodynamics, physics, and chemistry Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe thin film growth methodesExplain main mechanismsCategorize the different methodsPropose mothods according to requirementsTheorize on the effect of process parameters Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals. Teaching methods ex cathedra exercices demonstrations Assessment methods Continuous assessment and oral exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "AR-401(z)", "name": "Studio MA1 (L\u00fctjens et Padmanabhan)", "description": "The studio explores the subject of urban housing with an emphasis on the relationship between urban space, facades and the inner spatial structure of the building and the apartment. Content Lausanne's urbanity is determined by a succession and overlap of single urban fragments. The individual character of these pieces provides the richness of its urban texture. This semester we will work on such an urban fragment. Avenue de la Sallaz and the possibility of its urban development is the theme of this semester. Each group will design a large urban housing building. We will work on the urban setting, the plans and the fa\u00e7ades at the same time. The architecture of the Italian Renaissance is an architecture consisting of incomplete individual buildings and magnificent urban fragments. The artistic return to antiquity was above all a creative act set against a background of only fragmentary knowledge. Often with modest means, the master-builders of the Renaissance created works that have still not lost their expressive power today. The Renaissance buildings that appeal to us draw their power from the tension and resistance intrinsic to works that equally admit ideal and reality, imagination and contradiction, recklessness and conformism. This semester we will design buildings in this spirit. We will look simoultanously at buildings from the Renaissance and from today. The richness of architecture is the theme of the semester. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Develop a design of an urban apartment building based on a pair of architectural references given by the professors, including highly articulate facades and floor plans that possess a spatial structure that reflects the urban condition.Represent their designs in large-scale working models of the building\u00e2\u0080\u0099s exterior and interior, through model photography and in conventional architectural drawings.Discuss their project ideas in terms of gestalt, expression, interior spatial structure and in relationship to the transformation of the architectural references.Reflect on their design experience within the wider cultural context of the semester. Teaching methods The students will work in groups of two. After two preliminary exercises, the students will work on their project and develop it further during the semester. Weekly desk critiques and three interim critiques will structure the semester. Two lectures, a seminar and a compulsory study trip will provide the cultural and intellectual context to the semester."}
{"courseId": "AR-401(y)", "name": "Th\u00e9orie et critique du projet MA1 (Huang)", "description": "This studio explores meaningful form generating processes by the use of algorithmic and parametric tools and introduces the notion of growth typologies in architectural and urban design thinking. Our studio site will be in Singapore, our programme the procedural design of a vibrant innovation park. Content The advent of new digital technologies has had a twofold impact on architectural thinking and urban design, transforming, on one hand, the processes for form generation and design production through algorithmic and parametric technologies, and, on the other hand, enabling an escape from the static fate of the built environment by facilitating dynamic interaction between inhabitants and their surrounding. Our interest in the orientation 'Artificial Morphogenesis' is to explore meaningful form generating processes by the use of algorithmic and parametric tools and introduce the notion of growth typologies in architectural and urban design thinking. In particular, we examine the potential of responsive morphogenetic design to explore intuitive form finding processes that address bio-climatic and socio-economic challenges.\u00a0 This studio (the \"Singapore studio\") is the first in a planned series of design research projects focused on the theme of data-driven urbanism. While developing a base of digital evidence specific to each site, each studio will explore novel means of deploying this data to support design and generate form. The intellectual aim of the studio is to question the extent to which the data-scape can artificially generate urban form. Our interest is directed at the decoding and recoding of two distinct domains of knowledge: exteriority which represents a many-layered geographic condition and anteriority which represents the embedded knowledge of local architectural typologies and systems. While the exteriority of geographic data is crucial to our research, we place a primary emphasis on the generative potential of typology- what we have called \"growth typologies\". Decoding anterior form and then recoding and deploying it across new territories allows us to challenge the role of architecture in urban developments of increased scale and complexity. Keywords Data-driven Design Computational Urbanism Morphogenesis Artificial Design Rapid Urbanization Singapore Equatorial Urbanism. Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course (1) Parametric Methods: In alignment with the goals of the morphogenesis orientation, this studio will explore meaningful form generating processes by the use of algorithmic and parametric tools and introduce the notion of growth typologies in architectural and urban design thinking. (2) Digital Generative Design Tools:\u00a0 We assert that it is precisely the new wave of digital tools (scripting, parametric modeling, and associative geometry) that enable the type of approach which is forwarded by the studio's agenda. The ability to organize and leverage information permits the architect to approach projects of new scales and complexity. The logical management of variation allows the architect to avoid repetitive solutions and to maintain an equally high level of conceptual rigor across the entire project, to engage with that complexity rather than reducing it. An additional aspect is the ability to quickly and accurately produce quantitative information during the design process which can be used to strengthen the argument or inform the decision-making process. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Interpret the morphogenetic parameters and other issues of relevance to the project using drawings and diagrams.Critique a specific project brief and a specific context and respond with a meaningful data-driven design concept.Translate a data-driven design concept into meaningful architectural and/or urban propositions at appropriate scales and levels of granularity.Produce coherent architectural representations and models at sufficient levels of detail.Formulate the morphogenetic narrative and create convincing arguments for the design propositions.Develop convincing final diagrams, drawings, renderings, simulations, physical and digital models. Transversal skills Collect data.Design and present a poster.Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods The studio is project based, and will use design research methods and design studio pedagogy, ordinarily consisting of desk critiques, pin-up reviews, intermediate and final reviews.\u00a0 The studio is committed to the transformative power and relevance of architectural form to the life of the city. That being the case, we are not enforcing a formal agenda; rather, our desire is to empower architects in their form-finding capability.\u00a0 Digital tool is not an end of itself but a means for exploring alternative and novel, yet sensible and meaningful architectures. \u00a0 Expected student activities Architectural projects will be developed individually (or exceptionally in groups of 2).\u00a0 Some group work may occur in the analysis stages.\u00a0 \u00a0 Assessment methods Grading will be based upon the quality of the projects in the research exercises, in the intermediary reviews and in the final review.\u00a0 Projects will be reviewed and assessed based on their conceptual strength and innovation, the coherence and resolution of their architectural translation, their representative clarity and expressive power, and the persuasiveness of their communication, both orally, and through the physical and digital artifacts.\u00a0 \u00a0 Supervision Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "EE-512", "name": "Biomedical signal processing", "description": "The goal of this course is to introduce the techniques most commonly used for the analysis of biomedical signals, and to present concrete examples of their application for diagnosis purposes. Content 1. Generalities on biomedical signal processing 2. Digital signal processing - basics sampling Fourier transform filtering stochastic signals correlation, and pwoer spectral density 3. Time-frequency analysis short-term Fourier transform time-frequency distributions, Cohen's class wavelet transform 4. Linear modeling autoregressive models linear prediction parametric spectral estimation criteria for model selection 5. Adaptive filtering adaptive predictione adaptive estimation of transfert functions adaptive interference cancellation 6. Miscellaneous polynomial models singular value decomposition principal component analysis Keywords signal processing, biomedical engineering, signal modeling, spectral analysis, adaptive filtering Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Signal processing for telecommunications COM-303 Signal processing EE-350 Teaching methods lectures, lab sessions using Matlab Assessment methods 1 point for lab/exercise sessions reports 2 exams: end of November 2points - final exam 3 points"}
{"courseId": "CH-629(2)", "name": "Current Topics in Chemical Biology 2", "description": "Invited scientists in the filed of chemical biology present their research in lectures of 1 hour (14 speakers per semester). Content 14 lectures per semester about resarch activities of invited speakers. The talks will cover diverse topics across the field of chemical biology. The themes may include but are not limited to the following ones: study of chemical mechanisms in biology, understanding natural biological systems using chemical and biological tools, expanding biology through chemistry, development and application of chemical or biochemical techniques, drug development with chemical or biological tools, etc. \u00a0 The speakers and talk titles will be announced at the beginning of each semester on a website. Note Enrolment: edch@epfl.ch Next session Spring 2017 Keywords chemical biology, research talks Learning Prerequisites Required courses M.Sc. in chemistry, biochemistry, biology or a related science"}
{"courseId": "ENV-525", "name": "Physics and hydrology of snow", "description": "This course covers principles of snow physics, snow hydrology, snow-atmosphere interaction and snow modeling. It transmits sound understanding of physical processes within the snow and at its interfaces with the atmosphere and the ground, including field, laboratory, and modeling techniques. Content Processes of snow formation in the atmosphere Physical (thermal, optical, mechanical) properties of snow Snow accumulation, transport, redistribution Heat and mass transfer in snow, metamorphism Energy balance within snow and at its boundaries Processes of snow pack ablation and melt Snow cover variability and interaction with vegetation Snow cover-climate interactions at various scales Measurement methods and field techniques Remote sensing of snow at different scales Approaches of snow cover modeling Snow modeling using the SNOWPACK model Keywords Snow, glaciology, cryosphere, avalanches, hydrology, atmospheric boundary layer, environmental physics Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses ENV-167, ENV-221, ENG-272 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze a snow cover and acting physical processesCompute heat and mass fluxes related to snowApply a detailed snow cover model (SNOWPACK)Formulate snow-air-ground exchange processesExplain the evolution of a snow coverInterpret a snow cover as a result of its genesisPerform practical field work and measurementsAssess / Evaluate the role of snow in local and global climate Teaching methods Lectures, exercises (incl. computer labs), self-learning Assessment methods Exercises (including model simulations) Written exam (end of semester)"}
{"courseId": "CH-409", "name": "Nuclear magnetic resonance", "description": "Principles and practice of modern nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. NMR is today the most powerful spectroscopic method to determine the structure of molecules and materials, in physics, chemistry, biology or medicine. Content Principles of nuclear magnetism. Quantum description of magnetic resonance leading to the vector model. Interactions defining the spectrum: chemical shifts, scalar, dipolar and quadrupolar couplings. Time-domain spectroscopy by pulsed excitation: interaction with radiofrequency fields, coherence, precession, signal induction and the Fourier Tranform. Relaxation and the return to equilibrium. Polarization transfer. Multi-dimensional correlation spectroscopy. The Overhauser effect and confirmational analysis. Instrumentation and applications in modern chemistry. Keywords Spectroscopy; Magnetic Resonance; NMR; Strucutre; Chemical Analysis; Learning Prerequisites Required courses None Recommended courses Basic undergraduate chemistry courses Important concepts to start the course Spectroscopy, chemical analysis, chemical structure Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the fundamental principles of Magnetic ResonanceInterpret an NMR spectrum in terms of the interactions involvedDescribe the elements of a pulsed Fourier transform NMR experimentDesign a strategy for analysis of molecular structure or dynamics by NMR Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives. Teaching methods Lectures, homework and problem classes Assessment methods Written examination Supervision Assistants Yes Resources Bibliography 'Nuclear Magnetic Resonance,' P.J. Hore, Oxford, 2003 : substitute the most recent edition! \"NMR: the Toolkit\", P.J. Hore, J.A. Jones and S.Wimperis, Oxford, 2003 : substitute the most recent edition! \"Understanding NMR Spectroscopy,\" 2nd Edition, J. Keeler, Wiley, 2010 \"Spin Dynamics,\" 2nd Edition, M.H. Levitt, Wiley, 2008 Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Nuclear magnetic resonance / HoreUnderstanding NMR spectroscopy / KeelerNMR the toolkit / HoreSpin dynamics / Levitt Notes/Handbook On moodle"}
{"courseId": "MSE-648", "name": "Limestone-Calcined Clay - Cement : Characterisation methods", "description": "Le but est de former doctorants et post doctorants aux m\u00e9thodes de charact\u00e9risation des ciments compos\u00e9s comme la microstructure, la diffraction des rayons X, la calorim\u00e9trie, la formulation et la durabilit\u00e9 dans le cadre des actions internationales du project LC3 financ\u00e9 par la DDC. Content LC3 is a low carbon and low cost cement that delivers similar or even superior performance properties compared to Portland cement. The blend can be easily manufactured in existing production lines, requiring only minor capital investments Topics: Cement hydration of blended system Quantitative XRD Microstructure Durability Shrinkage and workability Keywords blended cement, characterisation methods \u00a0 \u00a0 Assessment methods written"}
{"courseId": "CH-447", "name": "Advanced materials for photovoltaics and lighting", "description": "The course is made up of the understanding of the use of advanced materials for Dye-sensitized Solar Cells, Semiconductor Nanoparticles (Q-dots) and Organic Light Emitting Diodes (OLED). Content The course is made up of the understanding of the use of advanced materials in a range of devices such as: Case Study 1: Dye-sensitized Solar Cells (12 hours, 6 weeks) Case Study 2: Perovskite Solar Cells (8 hours, 4 weeks) Case Study 3: Semiconductor Nanoparticles (Q-dots) for Solar Cells (4 hours, 2 weeks) Case Study 4: Organic Light Emitting Diodes (OLED's) (4 hours, 2 weeks) Learning Prerequisites Required courses Basic knowledge on metal complexes and characterization Recommended courses Photochemistry II, by Moser Jacqes-Edourd Important concepts to start the course The main focus of the course 'Advanced Materials for Photovoltaic and Light Emitting Applications' is to train students to understand properties of these materials at Molecular level. The course inspires students to go for doctoral studies and find solutions to the energy and environment issues. The student's benefit from this course, which is a result of 20 years intense research consisting of 25 scientists and deals with: Controlling of photo-physical, photo-chemical and electrochemical properties of metal complexes Chemistry of Sensitizers for dye-sensitized solar cells Creating directionality in the excited state of the sensitizers Tuning of absorption and Emission spectral properties of triplet emitters Controlling quantum yields and excited state lifetime Various characterization techniques and applications This course has a direct relevance to the society's need of solving global warming and other pertinent issues Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Conduct Controlling of photo-physical, photo-chemical and electrochemical properties of metal complexes, Chemistry of Sensitizers for dye-sensitized solar cells, Creating directionality in the excited state of the sensitizers, Tuning of absorption and Emission spectral properties of triplet emitters, Controlling quantum yields and excited state lifetime.Investigate The course inspires students to go for doctoral studies and find solutions to the energy and environment issues.Characterize Various characterisation techniques and applicationsDimension This course has a direct relevance to the society\u00e2\u0080\u0099s need of solving global warming and other pertinent issues Expected student activities Literature search, and discuss most interesting publications related to photovoltaic and Light emitting applications Assessment methods 10 minutes preparation time, 15 minutes Oral presentation and 5 minutes questions including expert. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "EE-535", "name": "Nanoelectronics", "description": "This lecture overviews and discusses the last trends in the technology and principles of nanoelectronic devices for more aggressive scaling, better performances, added functionalities and lower energy per function. The opportunities of these advances compared to industrial roadmaps are analized. Content (1) Ultimate CMOS technologies and their showstoppers\u00a0(2) Phenomena specific to deep submicron devices: non-stationary phenomena (velocity overshoot), ballistic transport, quantum effects, atomic scale parameter fluctuation (fluctuation of number of dopants, interface roughness).\u00a0(3) Innovative device architectures (Double-gate MOS transistor - DGMOS, dynamic threshold MOS transistor - DTMOS, gate-all-around transistor - GAA, vertical MOS transistors)\u00a0(4) Nano-scale and quantum devices: Single Electron Transistor (SET), quantum wires, few-electron memories, etc.\u00a0(5) Steep slope switches: Tunnel FEts, NEM\u00a0 switch and Negative Capacitance switch.\u00a0(6) Charge-based circuit architectures: quantum dot cellular automata (QCA)\u00a0(7) Carbon Nanotubes: technology, devices and circuits\u00a0(8) Spintronics Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basic electronics Teaching methods Ex cathedra"}
{"courseId": "MGT-690(B)", "name": "Field Research Project B", "description": "Contact the EDMT Administration for enrollment please"}
{"courseId": "AR-639", "name": "PhD Masterclass - The horizontal metropolis and other research questions", "description": "In the frame of the exhibition \u00ab The Horizontal Metropolis. A Radical Project \u00bb presented as collateral event to the International Biennale di Architettura di Venezia by the Laboratory of Urbanism EPFL. Content \u00a0 From August 23d to 26th, the EDAR and the Doctoral Programme in Urbanism of the IUAV Doctoral school of Architecture, City and Design will organise a PhD MASTERCLASS intituled 'THE HORIZONTAL METROPOLIS AND OTHER RESEARCH QUESTIONS'. \u00a0 The MasterClass will take place in the frame of a series of events (round tables, workshops) accompanying the exhibition \u00ab Horizontal Metropolis. A radical Project \u00bb presented by the Laboratory of urbanism EPFL on Certosa Island (5 min from the Arsenale of Venice), as a collateral event of the 2016 Venice Architecture Biennale. \u00a0 The MasterClass will offer EDAR and IUAV PhD candidates an opportunity to present their research to an international panel of discussants: Cristina Bianchetti (Politecnico di Torino), Lorenzo Fabian (IUAV), Viviana Ferrario (IUAV), Vincent Kaufmann (EPFL), Terry McGee (University of British Columbia), Stefano Munarin (IUAV), Grahame Shane (Columbia University), Maria Chiara Tosi (IUAV), Paola Vigan\u00f2 (EPFL-IUAV), W. Zhu (Zhejiang University). \u00a0 DAYS 1,2,3 The PhD candidates will present their research to the discussants panel in thematic sessions. \u00a0 DAY 4 Public round table with the discussants panel. \u00a0 NB: To apply to the Master Class, PhD candidates will have to provide a short abstract (title 500 signs) of their research in the urban field. Note English proficiency; ongoing PhD research in the urban field Keywords Urban Territory"}
{"courseId": "PENS-306", "name": "Mapping urban history", "description": "The ambition of this course is to give a panorama of the development of historical cartography in Europe and to demonstrate the manner in which these documents can be used to build historical geographical information systems (HGIS). Content The course is organized around three case studies: Venice, Geneva and Paris. For each of these cities, the course presents a comparative analysis of representation modes, urban dynamics and architectural elements. Students will learn to interpret historical documents to conduct urban evolution analyses and reconstruct in 2d and 3d visualizations of each of the cities studied.\u00a0 Course Plan: 1 Introduction2 Urban iconography and historical maps3 Interpretation of historical sources for modelling 4 Historical Geographical Information System5 In-situ urban data acquisition, sampling and modelling methods6 Case study 1 : Venice7 Case study 2 : Paris8 Case study 3 : Geneva9 Field study in Geneva10 Visit of the State Archive in Geneva11 Group project session12 Presentations of the group projects. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Interpret using historical knowledge, the various typologies of urban development strategiesRecognize variety of modes of city representations.Apply digital cartography methodology and visual representation techniquesInterpret historical sources to produce digital representationsDevelop an autonomous research project using the relevant tools to achieve chosen goals. Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Collect data.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Design and present a poster.Demonstrate a capacity for creativity. Teaching methods Full-class presentation and exercises sessions. Assessment methods Final project presentation."}
{"courseId": "ENG-615", "name": "Topics in Autonomous Robotics", "description": "Students will be introduced to modern approaches in control and design of autonomous robots through lectures and exercises. Content Modular Robotics and Locomotion (AI)Distributed Robotics (AM)Human-Robot Interaction (AB)Variable topic; e.g. map-based navigation, neural robotics, etc Note The course is organized into slots, one per day on a specific topic. Each slot is composed of 6 hours of lectures followed by practical and theoretical exercises that students will do at home. Each slot may change each year. We may also have additional slots/topics given by guest lecturers, who are renown researchers in the taught topic. Students will be assessed on the reports of their exercises. Keywords Evolutionary Mobile Robotics Modular Locomotion, Human-robot, Interaction, Mobile Robot Design"}
{"courseId": "EE-553", "name": "Speech processing", "description": "This course is an introduction to modern methods of digital signal processing within the fields of speech analysis, compression, synthesis, recognition and human-machine voice communication Content IntroductionSpeech - fundamental means of communication between humans. Voice signal generalities.\u00a0Speech production and perceptionAnatomy. Speech production. Articulatory phonetics. Acoustic phonetics. Models of speech production. Auditory perception. Psychoacoustics. Models of speech perception. Masking and critical bands.\u00a0Speech analysis and modellingShort-term processing. Time-domain analysis. Spectral and time-spectral analysis. Cepstral analysis. Linear prediction analysis. Pitch and formant estimation. Speech recognition Deterministic modelling (Dynamic time warping (DTW) and Vector quantization (VQ)). Statistical modelling (hidden Markov models (HMMs) and Gaussian mixture models (GMMs), Baum-Welch and Viterbi algorithms). Isolated-word, connected-word and continuous recognition systems Speaker recognition Intra- and inter-speaker variability. Speaker verification and identification. Deterministic and statistical methods. Text-dependent and text-independent recognition. Speech compression and coding Waveform coding (PCM, DPCM, ADPCM). Sub-band coding. Parametric coding (Vocoders). Vector quantization. Hybrid coding (Code excited linear prediction (CELP)). Perceptual Coding. Voice over IP.\u00a0Speech synthesis Prosody. Synthesizers (Waveform synthesis. Parametric synthesis. Articulatory models). Synthesis systems (Text-to-speech synthesis).\u00a0Human-machine voice communication Integration of subsystems. Dialogue systems (Rapid prototyping of dialogue manager). Human-robot voice communication. Interactive voice servers. Dictation systems. Keywords speech processing, speech production, speech perception, speech recognition, speaker recognition, speech compression, speech synthesis, voice communication Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Introduction to signal processing, Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze speech signalRecognize speechRecognize speakersSynthesize speechDevelop speech compression systemsDevelop voice communication systemsApply speech processing systemsAssess / Evaluate speech processing systems Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsGive feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives. Teaching methods Ex cathedra with exercices and demonstrations Expected student activities attendance at lectures, completing exercises and applying demonstration at home Assessment methods Oral exam Supervision Assistants Yes Resources Bibliography J. Benesty, M.M. Sondhi, Y. Huang,(Eds.), 'Springer Handbook of Speech Processing', Springer-Verlag, Berlin Heidelberg, 2008 Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Springer Handbook of Speech Processing Notes/Handbook A. Drygajlo, 'Traitement de la parole', Part I and II, Lecture Notes, EPFL, Lausanne, 2011 Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/enrol/index.php?id=13951"}
{"courseId": "MGT-602", "name": "Mathematical models in supply chain management", "description": "Over the past decade, supply chain management has drawn enormous attention by industry and academia alike. Given an increasingly global economy, pronounced trends towards outsourcing and advances in information technology, more and more complex business relationships among companies have evolved. Content When taken together with market pressures such as rapidly changing product life cycles, proliferation of product variety, and co-existence multiple distribution channels, supply chain management today is rightfully seen as a new competitive imperative. \u00a0While industry is making tremendous progress in experimenting with new and innovative ways to manage their supply chains, we are beginning to see widespread interests to better inform supply chain choices by careful analysis of impeded tradeoffs. In this seminar, we will provide an overview of the state-of-the art in supply chain modeling and study select research papers on this topic. We will draw on the understanding and experience of industrial practices to illustrate key tradeoffs. The resulting mathematical models are used to foster managerial insights and prescribe optimal courses of actions. \u00a0This course covers recent research and advances in operations and supply chain management. The objective is to familiarize Ph.D. students with the latest research in these areas and to provide for an opportunity to common modeling assumptions.\u00a0 The course should be of particular interest for students who are currently pursuing doctoral studies at the junction of technology management and supply chain management, or related fields.\u00a0 In addition, it should appeal to students who are interested in the quantitative analysis of operations and supply chains. Keywords supply chains, mathematical modeling, optimization, firm and inter-firm context Assessment methods Class Contribution\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 one-third Presentations\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 one-third Seminar Paper\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 one-third \u00a0Assignments will consist of class presentation and a seminar paper.\u00a0 For each class, one student takes the lead and present one of the assigned papers in detail.\u00a0 All the other students should prepare a critique of the assigned papers, i.e., take notes while reading and preparing the paper to help advance our class discussions with critical questions. This class participation is intended to help you sharpen your conceptual and theory building skills and thus help you in turn become more systematic in your critical thinking and writing. At the end of the course, we ask you to summarize key learning. The assignments of students to sessions and papers will be done jointly in class. Working in pairs will also be feasible and should be discussed up front. The provided working papers copies are restricted in use for our course only."}
{"courseId": "BIO-634", "name": "Practical - Simanis Lab", "description": "Yeast genetics. Introduction to yeast genetics and cell biology. Content We will introduce you to the basic techniques used when emplying the yeast model system to answer a biological question. You will set up and interpret genetic crosses, generate synchronous populations of cells and examine various parameters thereof. You will also examine the behaviour of components of the cytoskeleton during the cell cycle. In addition, there will be a brief introductory lecture and you will be asked to read and present a paper which uses the techniques that you will learn. You will be assessed based on your performance at the bench during the course and your comprehension and presentation of the assigned paper. Note Note that while the course is open to all first year EPFL doctoral students, priority will be given to EDMS students, given that they are mandated to take three of EDMS practical modules. Note also that doctoral students from the Simanis laboratory cannot take this course. Access is limited to 2 students. Keywords Yeast, genetics, microscopy. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Reading of reviews (titles to be communicated later) and knowledge of basic molecular biology."}
{"courseId": "EE-551", "name": "Image communication", "description": "This class presents the main concepts underlying image and video compression and transmission, and discusses current applications in multimedia communication. Content RecallBasics of rate-distortion theory, basics of quantization, basics of DPCM, basics of Fourier and wavelets transforms.\u00a0Image and video compressionOverview of image compression, multiresolution and wavelet coding, still image compression standards, motion estimation, overview of video coding, video compression standards.\u00a0Multimedia NetworkingBasics of networking, multimedia networking protocols, multimedia traffic and network infrastructures. \u00a0Image CommunicationInternet video and multiview video streaming, wireless video streaming, error resilient image communication, rate control, content distribution networks. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Introduction to signal processing, Image processing Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze multimedia transmission systemsConstruct image compression and transmission methodsmultimedia transmission systems Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsAccess and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Write a scientific or technical report.Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods Ex cathedra with exercices in classroom and using computer Assessment methods Continuous control Resources Notes/Handbook Image Communication, EPFL Master optional class, Prof. Pascal Frossard"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-732", "name": "Plasma Diagnostics in Basic Plasma Physics Devices and Tokamaks: from Principles to Practice", "description": "The programme will allow students to learn plasma diagnostics and data processing methods of modern fusion experiments and to bridge the gap between diagnostics theory and experimental practice."}
{"courseId": "PHYS-602", "name": "Nanophotonics and plasmonics", "description": "The course will covers different aspects of plasmonics and nanophotonics, from fundamental principles to materials requirements, fabrication and characterization. In addition to lectures, there are numerical experiments to become familiar with the response of plasmonic systems and materials. Content \u00a0 Introduction Light scattering Materials for plasmoncis Localized plasmon resonances Propagating plasmons Modelling plasmonic nanostructures Modes in plasmonics SERS and fluorescence Biosensing Nanofabrication for plasmonics Nonlinear plasmonics Coupled-oscillators models EELS Industrial applications Numerical experiments Project \u00a0 Keywords plasmonics, nanophotonics, optics of metals, electromagnetics, sensing, signal processing, materials sciences, nanotechnology Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze plasmonic systemsCompute propagating and localized plasmon resonancesPredict the response of plasmonic systemsExplore applications of plasmonicsCarry out further investigationsApply the taught conceptsMake sense Transversal skills Make an oral presentation.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art.Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources."}
{"courseId": "CS-413", "name": "Computational photography", "description": "The students will gain the theoretical knowledge in computational photography, which allows recording and processing a richer visual experience than traditional digital imaging. They will also execute practical group projects to develop their own computational photography application. Content Computational photography is the art, science, and engineering of creating a great (still or moving) image. Information is recorded in space, time, across visible and invisible radiation and from other sources, and then post-processed to produce the final - visually pleasing - result. Basics: Human vision system, Light and illumination, Geometric optics, Color science, Sensors, Digital camera systems. Generalized illumination: Structured light, High dynamic range (HDR) imaging, Time-of-flight. Generalized optics: Coded Image Sensing, Coded aperture, Focal stacks. Generalized sensing: Low light imaging, Depth imaging, Plenoptic imaging, Light field cameras. Generalized processing: Super-resolution, In-painting, Compositing, Photomontages, Panoramas, HDR imaging, Multi-wavelength imaging, Dynamic imaging. Generalized display: Stereoscopic displays, HDR displays, 3D displays, Mobile displays. Keywords Computational Photography, Coded Image Sensing, Non-classical image capture, Multi-Image & Sensor Fusion, Mobile Imaging.\u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses A basic Signal Processing, Image Processing, and/or Computer Vision course. Linear Algebra. Recommended courses Introduction to Computer Vision. Signal Processing for Communications. Important concepts to start the course Basic signal processing. Basic computer vision. Basic programming (iOS, Android, Matlab). Learning Outcomes Identify the main components of a computational photography system.Contextualise the main trends in computational optics, sensing, processing, and displays.Create a computational photography application on a mobile platform.Design a computational photography solution to solve a particular imaging task.Assess / Evaluate hardware and software combinations for their imaging performance.Formulate computational photography challenges that still need to be resolved. Transversal skills Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions. Teaching methods The course consists of 2 hours of lectures per week that will cover the theoretical basics. An additional 2 hours per week are dedicated to a group project designing, developing, and programming a compuational photography application on a mobile plateform (iOS, Android). Expected student activities The studens is expected to attend the class and actively participate in the practical group project, which requires coding on either Android or iOS plateform. The student is also required to read the assigned reading material (book chapters, scientific articles). Assessment methods The theoretical part will be evaluated with an oral exam at the end of the semester, and the practical part based on the students' group projects. \u00a0 Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "ENG-619", "name": "Information literacy for chemists", "description": "The course covers the essential chemical databases and search engines available at EPFL. New PhD students will acquire the skills to efficiently use these tools and the chemical literature, and apply these skills to their own research topics. Content Information sources and services at EPFL (1h) - scientific publications: articles, book, patents, reports, theses, databases - using the scientific literature: online and offline access, document delivery... \u00a0Text searching (2h) - understanding and designing search queries - practical article searching using Scifinder \u00a0Chemical searching (3h) - \u00a0searching for chemical structures, reactions and properties using Scifinder, Reaxys, Chemspider and the Cambridge Structural Database Note Next session: November 2017 (spread dates) Keywords Bibliographic databases Chemical information Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course General information literacy topics are addressed by other EPFL Library PhD modules (Web of Science & other databases, citation management, Open Access...) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Select appropriately a tool for for a given information searchUse this tool to locate the desired informationUse the available library and IT services to access this information Assessment methods Personal report on searches relevant to PhD projects"}
{"courseId": "CS-451", "name": "Distributed algorithms", "description": "Computing is often distributed over several machines, in a local IP-like network, a cloud or in a P2P network. Failures are common and computations need to proceed despite partial failures of machines or communication links. The foundations of reliable distributed computing will be studied. Content Reliable broadcast\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Causal Broadcast\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Total Order Broadcast\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Consensus\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Non-Blocking Atomic Commit\u00a0\u00a0 Group Membership, View SynchronyTerminating Reliable Broadcast\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Shared Memory in Message Passing System Byzantine Fault Tolerance\u00a0 Self Stabilization Population protocols\u00a0\u00a0 (models of mobile networks) Keywords Distributed algorithms, checkpointing, replication, consensus, atomic broadcast, ditributed transactions, atomic commitment, 2PC. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Basics of Algorithms, networking and operating systems Recommended courses The lecture is orthogonal to the one on concurrent algorithms: they can be taken in parallel. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose an appropriate abstraction to model a distributed computing problemSpecify the abstractionPresent an implementation of itAnalyze its complexity Teaching methods Ex cathedera Assessment methods Mid-term and final exams. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "MGT-517", "name": "Entrepreneurship laboratory (e-lab)", "description": "High-tech entrepreneurship is a major topic of innovation thanks to the value creation of companies such as Microsoft, Intel, Genentech, Apple or Google. These companies did not exist forty years ago. Such an exceptional phenomenon is studied with case studies & interaction with entrepreneurs. Content The high failure rate of start-up growth is an indication that even in Silicon Valley entrepreneurship remains a difficult process, not to say that it is nearly impossible to master. No theory has been able to predict the outcome of entrepreneurial ventures and it is not even clear that practice and experience really help in building successful start-ups. Therefore, the only way to better understand startup dynamics is to experience them in real cases. EFPL is surrounded by a higher than average high-tech start-ups, particularly at the Science Park (PSE) and close by Garage. Students will be given an opportunity to work with entrepreneurs on challenges they face in the start-up growth. Given the limited timeframe, it will not be possible to have a complete overview of the challenges an entrepreneur faces, but the objective would be that the students learn as much as possible from such a situation. Because all start-ups are different however, a large part of the course will be to complement the real case with other case studies so that the students learn as much as possible. Keywords Entrepreneurship, High-tech, Start-up, Silicon Valley Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses None Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Systematize the high-tech start-up knowledgePlan activities for a project Transversal skills Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Write a scientific or technical report.Make an oral presentation.Collect data. Teaching methods A mix of academic teaching and personal project. Assessment methods Continuous assessment combining: Active involvement 10% Midterm exam 30% Project 30% Presentations 30%"}
{"courseId": "EE-586", "name": "Introduction to planetary sciences", "description": "This course will contain an overview of planets, comets and asteroids. We will also present materials and results obtained by robotic spacecraft and how this data changed our understanding of the Solar System. Students will have hands on exercise with the data. We will discuss current missions. Content Introduction. This course introduces students into exciting world of planetary science. Students will learn about history of planetary exploration, study planetary processes and obtain some practical skills in data processing and analysis. Course will discuss latest discoveries in the field. History Exploration of the Solar system began in 1957 with the launch of the first satellite. Since then, almost all planets have been imaged or visited by fly-by missions, orbiters or landers. Course will present the most important findings by the mission. Planetary processes Planetary science reviews all components of a planet: internal structure, surface processes and atmospheres. We will discuss internal structures of terrestrial planets and gaseous giants. Surface properties will include discussion of tectonics, volcanic eruptions and planetary ices. We will also discuss comets and asteroids. Students will benefit from an overview of many disciplines. Particular attention will be given to engineering aspects that are derived from our knowledge of the planets. Practice Practical exercises will include review of papers, problem solving and data processing and analysis. Keywords planets, Solar System, universe, life, exoplanets, comets, asteroids, spacecraft, robotic exploration, history, planetary processes Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Present how life has evolved on our Solar SystemDiscuss hyptothesis of the formation of the planetsInterpret results of the recent robotic missions in the Solary systemSpecify requirements for operations of a robotic mission to a planet or an asteroidCharacterize major processes responsible for formation of planets Transversal skills Collect data.Summarize an article or a technical report.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsUse a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Lectures Homework Practical exercises Expected student activities Attendance on lectures Solving practical exercises Final exam Assessment methods Homework Assessment of practical work Final exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-445", "name": "Biomedical optics", "description": "This course addresses the principles governing the interactions between light and biological tissue, their optical properties and basic concepts of radiometry. The most important and illustrative diagnostic and therapeutic applications of light in medicine and photobiology will also be described Content Introduction Brief historyIntroduction to general optics and tissue opticsRadiometry and PhotometryLight dosimetryLight-tissues interactionsIntroduction to molecular spectroscopyDyes and luminophoresPrinciples and techniquesAbsorption, fluorescence, vibrational and Raman spectroscopies and imaging.Time-resolved spectroscopy and imaging.Light sources, detectors and optical systems.ApplicationsAnalytical techniques, oxymetry, optical biosensors, Photodetection of early cancers with exogenous and endogenous dyes, Angiography, Phototherapy and Photodynamic therapy, optical coherence tomography. Keywords Photomedicine, biomedical optics, tissue optics, light-tissue interactions, photodiagnosis, phototherapy, light dosimetry, dyes, photosensitizers. Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Basic background in biology, chemistry and optics. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design simple systems used for phototherapy and photodiagnosis.Characterize the spectral design of apparatus used in biomedical optics.Compute the light dose in biological tissues.Identify the optical components to develop an apparatus used in phototherapy.Explain the working principles of apparatus used in biomedical optics.Model the propagation of light in biological tissues.Quantify the light dose in phototherapy.Interpret data obtained or published in photomedicine. Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Collect data.Make an oral presentation.Summarize an article or a technical report.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods Lectures, Exercises, recent literature review papers, classroom discussion oral presentation. Expected student activities Exercises, lecture of review papers, classroom discussion oral presentation. Assessment methods Oral exam (1/2) presentation (1/4) exercices (1/4). Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No Others Lecturer:\u00a0Thursday, 16:00 - 18:00. Teaching assistant:\u00a0Thursday, 14:00 - 18:00 \u00a0 Resources Bibliography - Optical-Thermal Response of Laser Irradiated Tissue,\u00a0A.J. Welch & M.J.C. van Gemert (Plenum, 1995). - Principles of Fluorescence Spectroscopy,\u00a0J.R. Lakowicz (Kluwer, 1999). - Optics,\u00a0E. Hecht (Addison Wesley, 2000). - Handbook of Photomedicine, M. Hamblin & Y.-Y. Huang (CRC Press, 2013). - Handbook of Biomedical Fluorescence, M.-A. Mycek & B. W. Pogue (Dekker, 2003). - Photosensitisers in Biomedicine, M. Wainwright (Wiley-Blackwell, 2009). - Quantitative Biomedical Optics, I. Bigio & S. Fantini (Cambridge Univ. Press, 2016) Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Optics / HechtOptics / HechtOptics / HechtHandbook of Photomedicine / Hamblin Handbook of Biomedical Fluorescence / MycekPrinciples of Fluorescence Spectroscopy / LakowiczOptical-Thermal Response of Laser Irradiated Tissue / Welch Notes/Handbook Slides available on Moodle. Websites http://lcom.epfl.ch/wagniereshttp://people.epfl.ch/georges.wagnieres?lang=en&cvlang=enhttp://www.opticsinfobase.org/vjbo/virtual_issue.cfmhttp://www.photobiology.info Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=1291"}
{"courseId": "MGT-428", "name": "Quality assurance and quality management systems", "description": "Management systems in relation to quality and performance are currently implemented in the economy. Once implemented, they provide a rational management, with a direction for continual improvement and search of excellence. The course delineates the main content and facilitates their implementation Content 12 sections Context and aims of a quality approach; a short history; Definitions, norms and quality systems; ISO9000: content and implementation; QA and laboratories, ISO 17025; ISO 14000 and the environment; Total Quality Control (TQM): the pioneers, EFQM, Baldridge; TQM: Toyotism (TPS), Six Segma, Lean Six Segma; Audits, certification, accreditation; Elements of applied ethics and moral doctrine; Professional codes of ethics and their impacts on quality; ISO 14001 and the Environmental Management Systems Social responsibility of organizations and ISO 26000 (SR). \u00a0 Keywords Quality, Quality Assurance, Quality Control, Total Quality Control, Norms, ISO, Codes of Ethics, Applied Ethics, social responsibility Learning Prerequisites Required courses No specific course required, but an interest to management aspects required Recommended courses First of all, the desire to get a global and process oriented vision of the activity of an organization or a company. Important concepts to start the course Structure of an organism of the private and public economy. Characteristics of the Supply Chain (will be also presented briefly at the beginning of the course) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Define the role of quality in the operation and functioning of an organization or a firmIdentify what is a stake in the procedures to build a quality system;Describe the basic concepts and the main quality systems for organizations and laboratories, as well as their interface with the socio-economical environmentIntegrate quality and performance of a businesInvestigate the relations between Quality Assurance (QA) and related systems, professional codes of ethics and the social responsibility of organisations Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Respect relevant legal guidelines and ethical codes for the profession.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Lectures and exercises Expected student activities The presence to the course is not mandatory, but recommended. Students are expected to study in depth the content of the course with the help of the exercices. A mini project will validate their understanding of the methodology of QMS Assessment methods 5 exercises with an average grade >4: 30% Mini-project with a grade >4: 20% Oral examination: 50% Supervision Office hours No Forum No Others Any question can be sent by mail to the teacher who will either send a written answer in due time or propose a meeting Resources Bibliography Complete list English/French will be given during the course: - Jaccard, M., Objectif Qualit\u00e9, PPUR (2010): - Jaccard, M, The objective is Quality, EPFL/CRC Press (2013) - Mitonneau, H., ISO 9000 version 2000[/I], Ed. Dunod (2007) - Siegel, D., Le diagnostic strat\u00e9gique et la gestion de la qualit\u00e9 Ed. L'Harmattan (2004) - Weil, M., Le Management de la Qualit\u00e9. Ed. La D\u00e9couvete (2001) Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Le diagnostic strat\u00e9gique et la gestion de la qualit\u00e9 / SiegelLe management de la qualit\u00e9 / WeilISO 9000 version 2000 / MitonneauObjectif qualit\u00e9 / JaccardThe objective is Quality / Jaccard Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=12591"}
{"courseId": "MSE-610", "name": "Non-destructive evaluation methods", "description": "Basic knowledge of the classical non-destructive testing methods as they are used today in industrial applications and the advanced (mostly imaging) technologies used for the analysis of materials and components in special applications. It covers several material groups and various applications. Content The course content is as follows:\u00a0 Probability of detection / human factors Visual, optical and thermal methods Penetrant and leak testing Electromagnetic methods: diverted magnetic flux, eddy current, microwaves Acoustic methods: ultrasonics, acoustic emission Radiography, radioscopy, computed tomography Magnetic resonance imaging \u00a0 Keywords Radiography, Radioscopy, Computed Tomography, Ultrasonic Emission, Acoustic Emission, Electromagnetic methods."}
{"courseId": "ENV-422", "name": "Concepts in ecological engineering", "description": "During this course students will learn the essential ecological concepts necessary to apply techniques of ecological engineering. While concepts are applicable worldwide, the outcome of ecological restoration depends on the local context; this transposition will be the scope of the semester project. Content The course is organised in three chapters. Ecological Engineering: principles & background (definition of EE, ecosystem goods and service, threats to biodiversity) Ecological Concepts: their application in EE (increasing community structures, ecological networks, metapopulation) EE in selected ecosystems (wetlands, forests, grasslands, agro-ecosystems, mountain ecosystems) Keywords Ecological engineering, planning, management, restoration Learning Prerequisites Required courses Ecologie g\u00e9n\u00e9rale (BA4), Sciences du sol (BA3), Microbiologie pour l'ing\u00e9nieur (BA3) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Define ecological engineering (EE)Explain the main ecological concepts underlying EERecognize key ecosystem characteristics necessary to apply techniques of EEAssess / Evaluate the quality of a scientific articleElaborate a report on a practical EE problemApply ecological principals learnt in the course to real world problemsTranspose general concepts to local problemsExamine a scientific article Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Make an oral presentation.Summarize an article or a technical report.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Lecture ex cathedra Article presentation Semester project Expected student activities Students are expected to attend and participate the lectures, read and present a scientific article on concepts in ecological engineering, to do a semester project where you apply the principal topics learned during the lectures and write a report on the semester project. Assessment methods 10 % for article presentation 40 % semester project 50 % oral examination (20 min) Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum Yes Others Contact by email or skype Resources Bibliography Falk, D.A., M. Palmer, J. Zedler, and R.J. Hobbs. 2006. Foundations of Restoration Ecology. Island Press. Matlock, M.D., and R.A. Morgan. 2011. Ecological Engineering Design: Restoring and Conserving Ecosystem Services. Wiley. Smith, T.M., and R.L. Smith. 2012. Elements of Ecology. Always Learning. Pearson Benjamin Cummings. Townsend, C.R., M. Begon, and J.L. Harper. 2009. Essentials of Ecology. Wiley. Van Andel, J., and J. Aronson. 2012. Restoration Ecology: The New Frontier. Wiley. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Restoration Ecology/ Van Andel Elements of Ecology /Smith Foundations of Restoration Ecology / Falk Essentials of Ecology / TownsendEcological Engineering Design / Matlock Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=4621"}
{"courseId": "BIO-450", "name": "Molecular endocrinology", "description": "We will define the concept of homeostasis and principles of hormone action and the molecular mechanisms underlying them. Interactions with the environment and pertinent public health issues will be analyzed. Content Study the molecular mechanisms of hormone action. After a basic primer in general endocrinology, examine the various mechanisms of steroid and peptide hormone action, as well as the cross talk between the pathways and their role in cellular signaling. Study the role of hormones in development. Then, focus on how these pathways are involved in human diseases such as diabetes, obesity and endocrine-related cancer and discuss mechanisms of endocrine disruption. Learning Prerequisites Required courses None Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain principles of endocrine regulation.Interpret data in published papers.Design a research project.Present a research project orally.Defend a research project.Synthesize published data to produce a project. Transversal skills Summarize an article or a technical report.Make an oral presentation.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art.Manage priorities.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods Ex-cathedra lectures, journal clubs, oral presentation of the proposal. Expected student activities Presentation and critical analysis of papers. Oral presentation of research proposal. Assessment methods Oral : quality of slides, clarity and content of presentation, ability to answer questions Continuous control, final written exam. Supervision Assistants No Others Two hours of \"exercises\" per week. This will be used as appropriate through the course (discussion with teacher(s), preparation time etc)."}
{"courseId": "CS-622", "name": "Privacy Protection", "description": "Main threats against privacy, description of protection techniques and of their limitations. Content Part 1 - Preliminaries1.1 Introduction-\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 History of privacy protection; the legal framework-\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Anonymity, unlinkability, unobservability and related concepts-\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Privacy by Design; privacy-enhancing technologies (PETs)-\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 The future: wearable computing, DNA sequencing, electro-encephalogram interfaces,' 1.2 Economics and Incentives-\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 The elusive value of private data-\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Economics of privacy; targeted advertisement and ad blocking; why privacy is often not protected-\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Economics of PETS; why incentives often don't work 1.3 Crypto-Based Solutions-\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Identity management and anonymous credentials (zero-knowledge proofs)-\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Secure multi-party computation, including garbled circuits-\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Secret sharing; homomorphic encryption Part 2 - Data Privacy2.1 Hiding Data from the Database User-\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 k-anonymity, l-diversity, t-proximity-\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Differential privacy and Laplacian noise; composability 2.2 Hiding Access Patterns from the Database Owner- \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0Private information retrieval (PIR)-\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Oblivious RAM (ORAM) Part 3 - Privacy in Networks3.1 Privacy in the Internet-\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Anonymous routing and anonymous Web surfing; Tor-\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Privacy in online social networks 3.2 Privacy in Mobile Networks-\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Privacy in cellular and WiFi networks-\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Location privacy and its quantification Note Due to the limited time, many other privacy-related topics are not covered, including privacy in cloud computing, privacy in biometrics, reputation systems, anonymous cash, e-voting, peer-to-peer systems,... Keywords Privacy protection, Privacy enhancing technologies, data protection, anonymity, information security Learning Prerequisites Required courses Information security or security engineering Recommended courses Network security, probability theory, introductory course to cryptography Important concepts to start the course Principles of security for systems and networks Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate the privacy risks of a given organisation or systemPropose a set of solutionsImplement those solutionsEstimate the appropriateness and effectiveness of the solutions Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lectures In-class discussions Paper presentation Mini-project Expected student activities Participate in class, prepare and deliver paper presentation, do, document and present the mini-project, pass the oral exam Assessment methods Mini-project (50%) Oral exam (40%) Paper presentation (10%) In-class participation (up to 10% bonus)"}
{"courseId": "CS-550", "name": "Synthesis, analysis and verification", "description": "The course presents theory, algorithms, and tools for reasoning about computer systems, including techniques for software and hardware verification and synthesis. Content Motivation:Tools for automated analysis and verification of software can improve reliability of software that we use every day. The underlying techniques are also used for compiler optimizations and program understanding. In recent years, new algorithms and combinations of existing techniques have made such tools more effective than in the past. This course will give an overview of basic techniques, as well as the recent advances that made this progress possible. In many years the course also contains guest lectures presenting recent research results.\u00a0Topics covered include: Logic and relational program semantics Verification condition generation and Hoare logic Synthesis of programs from relations Abstract interpretation and data flow analysis Predicate abstraction Modular verification Decision procedures, SMT solvers, and resolution-based provers Learning Prerequisites Required courses Theoretical computer science and discrete mathematics course, or equivalent background and fluency in discrete mathematics and introductory theoretical computer science concepts (e.g. M. Sipser textbook) Functional programming in Scala, or ability to pick up Scala quickly (students knowing Haskell or ML generally have no trouble). \u00a0 Recommended courses The knowledge of mathematical logic and combinatorial optimization is beneficial Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Formalize program correctnessProve correctness of programs on paperSketch an automated verification algorithmInterpret results of verification systemsCreate a simple program verifierConstruct a constraint solverSystematize approaches to software correctnessChoose an appropriate technique for improving software reliability Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Respect the rules of the institution in which you are working.Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Make an oral presentation.Summarize an article or a technical report.Write a scientific or technical report.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles. Teaching methods Ex catedra Exercise sessions Practical work on projects under supervision of teaching assistants \u00a0 Expected student activities Attending lectures Exercises in class Homeworks Mid-term exam Practical project on modifying a verification system \u00a0 Assessment methods 30% common project in first part of semester (in stages and feedback after each, but grade only after all of them) 40% quiz in 2nd part of semester 30% individual projects by the project deadline Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "ChE-409", "name": "Chemical engineering lab & project", "description": "Familiarization with practical aspects encountered in chemical reaction engineering. A research project is carried out along twelve weeks where a close interaction is required between the different groups. Content Kinetics of gas/solid reactions (tubular reactor; mass-transfer influence on the global kinetics; heterogeneous catalyst characterization) Three phase reaction in a semi-batch reactor (internal & external mass-transfer, intrinsic kinetics study and modeling, and apparent activation energy; catalyst testing)\u00a0 Micro-reaction technology: macro & micro-mixing; segregation, micro-heat exchange, etc. Transient kinetics of heterogeneous reactions: Temperature programmed reaction/desorption (TPD/TPR), Transient response method, Residence time distribution (RTD). Thermal behaviour and parameter sensitivity of a highly exothermic reaction (runaway, heat management in batch & semi-batch reactor, optimized performance, etc...) Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Module A&B Chemical Eng. & Bio-technology \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Plan experiments during a semester to reach a well-defined goalOrganize the lab work for the good unwinding of the projectFormulate the tasks and objectives from one week to the otherRepresent adequately experimental data in a conventional scientific and technical formManage the task force within a teamInterpret experimental results with a critical mindStructure the report in a clear and well-thought mannerDefend the project in front of an informed audience Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Negotiate effectively within the group.Write a scientific or technical report.Make an oral presentation.Respect the rules of the institution in which you are working.Take responsibility for environmental impacts of her/ his actions and decisions."}
{"courseId": "MATH-481", "name": "Mathematical modelling of DNA", "description": "Mathematical modelling of DNA Content This course is designed to be an introduction, within the particular context of DNA, to the interplay between analysis, computation and experiment that makes up the process called mathematical modelling. In addition to students mainly interested in DNA modelling, the course is intended for students wishing an introduction to the modelling process in general, and will describe a number of widely encountered mathematical and computational techniques, all within the context of\u00a0the software\u00a0package cgDNA http://lcvmwww.epfl.ch/cgDNA/ Learning Prerequisites Required courses 1st & 2nd year courses in math or physics, (or with teacher's permission) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the theory underlying the modelExpound applications of all of the material in the course Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture and exercises in the classroom Assessment methods Written\u00a0exam"}
{"courseId": "MGT-453", "name": "Industry dynamics, models & trends", "description": "The course introduces the participants to industry analysis. Participants will learn how to identify and analyze industries with a particular focus on how industries evolve thanks to technological developments and regulatory constraints. Content The course will present the different approaches to industry analysis, as well as the different methodologies and tools which are generally used to perform such analyses. In this respect, Porter's five forces framework, the techniques used to analyse the degree of competition, the regulatory environment, business models,\u00a0value chains, as well as other concepts and tools generally used to assess industry dynamics and trends will be presented. Furthermore, the course will discuss future trends both from a theoretical as well as from a practical perspective. Particular attention will be paid to environmental changes and their subsequent impacts upon industry, such as regulatory and technological changes. Finally, the course will also consider the issue of industry evolution and corresponding models, in particular the question of convergence across industries. Keywords Industry analysis, industry trends, business models, industry change, business regulation Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Markets, competition, firms Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Demonstrate the ability to conduct an industry analysis Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources. Teaching methods Lectures by the professor. Participants develop their own industry analysis during the course. Expected student activities Conduct an industry analysis alone or in a team Communicate the results of the analysis effectively Assessment methods Continuous assessment combining: 15% active participation70% written document of 30 pages prepared by participants15% oral presentation by participants at the end of the course Supervision Office hours Yes Others Thursdays 16-18h Resources Bibliography See: http://mir.epfl.ch Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Strategic and competitive analysis/FleisherChair Management of Netword Industries"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-318", "name": "Optics II", "description": "Introduction to the basic concepts of classical and modern optics. The course provides the students with tools for understanding and analysing optical phenomena and designing various optical systems. Content 1. Coherence Theory1.1 Spatial and temporal coherence1.2 Partial and mutual coherence1.3 Correlation interferometry\u00a02. Photons2.1 Electromagnetic field quantization2.2 Photon statistics2.3 Photon detection\u00a03. Generation of Light3.1 Optical transitions3.2 Spontaneous and stimulated emission3.3 Einstein's relations\u00a04. Lasers4.1 Amplification of light4.2 Optical resonators4.3 Laser characteristics Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Optics I Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Elaborate on a chapter of the coursean exercise on a chapter of the course"}
{"courseId": "EE-477", "name": "Multivariable control and coordination systems", "description": "The objective is to enable students to design advanced solutions for the control and the coordination of distributed dynamic systems, such as production or distribution energy systems, as well as intelligent transportation systems. Content Selected chapters in dynamic coordination: Modeling of complex dynamic\u00a0systems using state-space representation Analysis of dynamic properties of complex\u00a0systems Optimal control with and without actuator constraints State estimation Dynamic coordination \u00a0 Keywords Multivariable systems, complex systems, state-space methods, optimal control, LQR, dynamic programming, state-space observer, state estimation, Kalman filter, coordination, navigation functions Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Linear Algebra Dynamic Systems Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose analysis, control or estimation approachesDesign state-space controllers or estimatorsJustify selected approachesArgue on their pros and cons Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Take responsibility for environmental impacts of her/ his actions and decisions.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Manage priorities.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsWrite a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Lectures and case studies carried out in teams Assessment methods Written exam and case study reports"}
{"courseId": "MSE-703", "name": "Science and technology of UV-induced polymerization", "description": "The course presents the main classes of photopolymers and key factors which control photopolymerization. It explains how to select the right formulation and optimize processes for a given application. Standard and novel characterization methods, new materials and new applications are also presented. Content 1. Introduction to radiation processing 2. Fundamentals of free-radical systems3. Components of photocurable formulations: photoinitiators, monomers, additives4. Analytical methods: state of the art and new developments5. Structure-property relations in UV curable polymers6. Advances in UV-induced polymerization research7. Application to UV inks and coatings, nanostructures and devices\u00a0 Note Program relevant for students in materials science, chemistry and micro-engineering (part of the course on 'selected topics in polymer science') Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Polymer science, organic chemistry Assessment methods The course provides 1 ECTS, based on a written report (maximum 10 pages) on a topic relevant to UV polymers. The report should synthesize three technical papers A, B and C from open scientific literature and develop a short case study (for example using equation from paper A and data from paper B to model results from paper C, or designing a process method (formulation, UV intensity, time) using inputs from the 3 papers)."}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-511", "name": "Lab methods : animal experimentation", "description": "Introduction to the key principles of animal experimentation, with an emphasis on laboratory rodents (mouse and rat) in the context of the EPFL facilities. Content Introduction to arguments and to methods of in vivo studies Biology of laboratory mice and rats Logistics, housing and care of laboratory animals: husbandry, breeding, health monitoring. Genetic engineering of animal models: transgenesis methods, breeding of genetically engineered models Phenotyping of animal models: design of experiments, scientific and technical issues. Examples of phenotyping protocols set up at the EPFL Ethical considerations and legal requirements of animal experimentation Keywords In vivo study, Animal model, Animal experimentation, Laboratory rodents, Husbandry, Transgenesis, Phenotyping, Ethics Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Basic animal biology Basis of molecular biology Basis of statistics applied to biology Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Develop a model for human diseaseInterpret in vivo experimentsDesign an animal experimentPropose measures to keep a good sanitary status of an animal facilityElaborate a breeding strategy for generating experimental and control animalsPlan a transgenic experimentDescribe the set-up of an animal houseAnalyze phenotypic dataImplement ethical principles when performing and planning animal experimentation Transversal skills Respect the rules of the institution in which you are working.Collect data.Summarize an article or a technical report.Respect relevant legal guidelines and ethical codes for the profession.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Make an oral presentation.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking Teaching methods Ex-cathedra courses Discussion in small groups on a given issue and presentation of the solution envisioned Scientific articles analysis and presentation Visits of the different facilities of the EPFL This course will take place on November 14th, 15th and 16th and on December 5th and 6th, 2016. Exam on December 16th, 2016 Expected student activities Attendance to the visits of the facilities Analysis and presentation of a scientific article\u00a0 (in vivo experiments) Assessment methods Written examnination at the end of the course"}
{"courseId": "CH-432", "name": "Structure and reactivity", "description": "To develop a detailed knowledge of the key steps of advanced modern organic synthesis going beyond classical chemistry of olefins and carbonyls. Content 1. Repetition of the chemistry of olefins and carbonyls- limitations2. Rearrangements - Sigmatropic: Claisen, Ireland-Claisen, Johnson-Claisen, Eschenmoser, Wittig, Evans-Mislow- Reactive intermediates : cations, carbenes, nitrenes3. Cyclisations and Cycloadditions- Pericyclic reactions- Diels-Alder (normal, hetero, inverse electron demand)- Dipolar cycloadditions 4. Radical- and Photochemistry5. Strrategy of Umpolung - Stoichiometric and catalytic 6. Metal-catalysis in Organic Chemistry- Cross-coupling and metathesis- Olefins and C-H bonds functionalization- Synthesis of carbo- and heterocyclic systems Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Develop a detailed knowledge of the key steps of advanced modern organic synthesis going beyond classical chemistry of olefins and carbonyls Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking Teaching methods ex cathedra lecture Assessment methods final oral exam"}
{"courseId": "FIN-406", "name": "Macrofinance", "description": "This course provides students with a working knowledge of macroeconomic models that explicitly incorporate financial markets. The goal is to develop a broad and analytical framework for analyzing the interaction of financial decisions, macroeconomic events and policy decisions. Content National Income Accounting and the Business Cycle Intertemporal Choice in a Simple Two-Period Model\u00a0 Endowment Model With Investment Determining the Equilibrium Interest Rate With Complete Markets With Incomplete Markets The Optimal Growth Model Consumption Investment Asset Pricing Putting it all together: a General Equilibrium Model of the Economy Monetary and Fiscal Policy Keywords Macroeconomics, Financial Economics, General Equilibrium. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Construct a general equilibrium model of an economyAnalyze what drives intertemporal choices (savings, etc)Model financial decisionsDevelop an economic model encompassing financial decisionsAssess / Evaluate the effect of financial decisions on macroeconomic variablesAssess / Evaluate the effect of macroeconomic eventsExpound the role of monetary and fiscal policies and their effects on the macroeconomyAnalyze what drives asset pricesDerive testable implications for asset pricesSearch and collect appropriate dataTest hypotheses using data Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Collect data. Teaching methods Lectures will take place on Wednesday, 9:15 to 12:00. Lectures will focus on how to develop a macroeconomic model that integrates financial markets. Lectures will first present the theory and then discuss the empirical relevance and applications. Exercises will take place on Monday, 15:15 to 17:00. Exercise sessions will take place in a classroom equipped with computers. Exercise time will focus on solving the problem sets, doing exercises related to class material, and carrying out applications of what you learned in class. Expected student activities Problem sets will be given out on a Wednesday and need to be returned to the instructor at the beginning of class the following Wednesday. The solution to the problem set will be posted on the class web page. Late problem sets are not accepted. Each student must turn in his/her problem set. Problem sets will range from analytical derivation of results to data analysis and testing, and to coding a simple macroeconomic model to calculate its steady state and to analyze its dynamic response to a macroeconomic shock. Coding will be done in Matlab. The problem sets are extremely important as they are the best way for the student to learn the material and do well in the exams. Assessment methods 30% Problem sets 35% Midterm Exam 35% Final Exam \u00a0 Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MGT-528", "name": "Operations: economics & strategy", "description": "Supply-chain management within a firm is concerned with the flow of goods and services from firms to consumers. This course provides an overview of the economic drivers and technological possibilities for designing a successful supply-chain strategy, especially in view of information flows. Content Readings and cases are used to discuss the following topics: 1. Origin and Scope of Supply-Chain Management 2. Supply-Chain Coordination 3. Strategic/Tactical/Operational Decisions 4. Performance Metrics 5. Inventory Management: Basics 6. Dealing with Risk 7. Information Sharing and Enabling Information Technologies 8. Cooperation and Relational Contracts 9. Sourcing Decisions and Contracting 10. Recent & Special Issues Keywords Economic Models, Operations, Strategic Management Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Basic calculus & economics & statistics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Realize strategic significance of operational decisionsCreate a dynamic strategic planDevelop structural insightsSolve basic quantitative modelsConstruct performance metricsOptimize operational decisions in the presence of uncertainty and competitionTranspose concepts to concrete application (project) Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Collect data.Make an oral presentation.Write a scientific or technical report.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Assessment methods Continuous assessment combining: 20% Homework40% Team project 30% Written exam10% Class participation"}
{"courseId": "CH-711", "name": "Inorganic chemistry \"Applications and spin-offs\"", "description": "Present and discuss important recent contributions in the field of inorganic chemistry. This will be achieved by student literature seminars based on selected publications,emanating from the last 12 months. Seminar preceded by an introduction to the topic and followed by a group discussion. Content The topics covered in this course will include recent advances in the field of bioinorganic chemistry (e.g. structure and reaction mechanism of metalloenzymes, synthesis of bioinorganic model compounds), organometallic synthesis and catalysis (e.g. new concepts in combinatorial catalysis, new synthetic methodologies, new spectroscopic techniques) and supramolecular coordination chemistry (e.g. new functional materials by self-assembly, the adaptive behavior of dynamic systems). The specific content will be chosen by the instructors and will be renewed every year. Note Spring semester 2018 Keywords Inorganic, Organometallic, Materials, Catalysis, Spectroscopy, Theory."}
{"courseId": "CS-435", "name": "Analytic algorithms", "description": "In the last decade, many fundamental algorithmic problems have benefited from viewing the underlying discrete problems through the lens of analytic methods. In this course we will introduce a selection of such techniques and explore their applications. Content ' Convexity, Gradient Descent and its variants ' Multiplicative Weight Update method\u00a0 ' Online convex optimization ' Interior point methods for solving convex programs ' Graphs, eigenvalues and Laplacians ' Electrical and combinatorial flows ' Conjugate Gradient Method ' Graph Partitioning and Cheeger's Inequality ' Ramanujan Graphs and Real Stable Polynomials ' Applications \u00a0 Keywords Convex optimization, Spectral methods Learning Prerequisites Required courses Calculus (MATH105), Linear Algebra (MATH110), Algorithms (CS250), Theory of Computation (CS251) or equivalents. \u00a0 Recommended courses Advanced Algorithms (CS-450)\u00a0 \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course This is an advanced course and requires mathematical maturity including linear algebra, analysis, probability and algorithms. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Learn fundamental techniques which apply continuous methods to discrete problemsApply analytic techniques to a variety of related problemsRead, understand, and explain state of the art papers in this area Assessment methods Homeworks, Scribe Notes, Exam and Project/Presentation*. *Tentative"}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-402", "name": "Geomechanics", "description": "Geomechanics deals with understanding, analysing and modelling the mechanical behaviour of geomaterials. The topics go further steps beyond the classical geotechnical engineering and provide students with the fundamental understanding and tools of the behaviour of soils. Content The role of geomechanics in engineering practice Strength and deformation (triaxial testing, rheological behaviour, critical state concept) Constitutive modelling in geomechanics Linear and non-linear elasticity Plasticity and failure criteria Elastic perfectly plastic models with parameters determination Elasto-plastic hardening framework (flow rule, plastic potential and dilatancy) Cam-Clay model Water in geotechnical engineering (hydro-mechanical coupling in geomechanics; effective stress, consolidation, partial saturation; wetting collapse) In-situ tests for parameters determination Cyclic loading and liquefaction Earth pressures Keywords Mechanical behaviour of geomaterial, Constitutive models for soils, shales and rocks, elasto-plasticity, numerical modelling in geomechanics, tunneling and undergroud structures, nuclear waste disposal, CO2 sequestration, foundation engineering, landslide and slope stability, laboratory and in-situ testing. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Soil mechanics and groundwater seepage Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Argue the non-linear behaviour of soils, shales and rocksSelect appropriately the constitutive model for a given geotechnical problemDefine the methodological approach of using model for an improved and deepened analysis of geotechnical problemsPropose the geotechnical testing program to define the model parameters Teaching methods \u00a0 Ex cathedra, exercises and homework \u00a0 Assessment methods Course evaluation will be based on the final written exam (100%). Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "CS-422", "name": "Database systems", "description": "This course is intended for students who want to understand modern large-scale data analysis systems and database systems. It covers a wide range of topics and technologies, and will prepare students to be able to build such systems as well as read and understand recent research publications. Content Database systems Online analytics; data stream processing Column stores Decision support systems and data warehouses Large-scale data analytics; systems and algorithms Transaction processing. OLTP systems and concurrency control algorithms Distributed data management systems Query optimization; database tuning Logging and recovery Modern storage hierarchies Learning Prerequisites Required courses CS-150: Discrete structures CS-322: Introduction to database systems CS-105: Introduction to object-oriented programming Recommended courses CS-323: Operating systems CS-452: Foundations of software Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: large databasesDesign big data analysis systemsanalysis algorithms Teaching methods Lectures, Reversed classroom teaching (video lectures plus in-classroom discussion and group work), project, homework, exercises Assessment methods 70% exams 30% project Supervision Others Office hours on request. Q&A sessions in lectures and exercises."}
{"courseId": "HUM-432(b)", "name": "How people learn II", "description": "The students will understand the factors which affect the learning of professionals (such as engineers or teachers). They will understand differences between learning during (a) initial training, (b) induction into the workplace, and (c) the on-going development of experienced professionals. Content See the full description of the course in the Introduction to project of the fall semester. Social and Cognitive Factors in Professional Learning General Aim: To enable participants to understand the ways in which professionals learn their profession, in the initial training stage, the induction into practice stage and the continuing professional development stage. General Description of Material:The ability for individuals and organisations to learn is often regarded as central to their survival and success in the contemporary world. But how do professionals (like teachers, or engineers) learn their profession? What are the differences between how we learn (a) in initial training, (b) during the transition into work and (c) when an experienced professional? Learning is partially a psychological concept, but professionals operate in social contexts and so an understanding of professional learning also draws on sociological research. Therefore understanding professional learning will involve a multi-disciplinary approach. Plan of the course:Students will design and conduct a piece of research in small teams with advice and supervision.\u00a0 Inputs on aspects of research design, data collection and analysis will be provided. Keywords Learning, Education, Social and Behavioural Science Research, Interdisciplinary Studies Learning Prerequisites Required courses How People learn I: HUM-432(a) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design an experiment or a survey on learningHypothesize relationships between learning and social or psychological factorsInterpret literature to generate hypothesesConduct the experiment or surveyAnalyze the data collected using appropriate statistical approachesInterpret the data in light of the literature and initial hypotheses Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Negotiate effectively within the group.Respect relevant legal guidelines and ethical codes for the profession.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Collect data.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Supervised team work sessions, mini-lectures Expected student activities Participation in planning collaborative research and in executing the plan Assessment methods Written report Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "BIO-315", "name": "Biomolecular structure and mechanics", "description": "The main focus of this course is on the description of molecular interactions defining the structure, dynamics and function of biological systems. The principal experimental and computational techniques used in structural biology will be introduced and practiced. Content 1. Structure: intermolecular interactions, structure of biomolecules, experimental methods in structural biology (X-ray crystallography, NMR, cryo-elecron microscopy), structural classification, comparative modeling. 2. Dynamics: elements of statistical mechanics, molecular mechanics of biomolecules, molecular dynamics simulations, binding and free energy calculations. 3. Selected topics: de novo protein structure prediction and design; protein folding, molecular assembly and misfolding; structure-based drug discovery, multiscale molecular simulation techniques. Practicals and projects will run in parallel to lectures to have a first hand experience on molecular visualization, X-ray crystallography, molecular modeling tools applied to protein structure prediction, biomolecular mechanics and dynamics, structure-based drug design. Keywords Structural biology, X-ray crystallography, integrative modeling, molecular modeling, molecular mechanics, molecular simulation, protein structure prediction, protein folding and design, drug discovery. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basic bachelor courses of Mathematics, Physics, Molecular Biology and Biochemistry Important concepts to start the course Structural biology and biochemistry of proteins, nucleic acids and membranes. Classic mechanics, themodynamics, and electrostatics (Physics I, II, III). Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explore the structure of biomolecules (and their interactions)Predict the structure of proteinsWork out / Determine the structure of biomoleculesPerform X-ray crystallography experimentsPerform molecular modeling and simulationChoose the appropriate method to tackle a problemDesign a project in structural biologyMake a scientific report and presentationAssess / Evaluate the role of intermolecular interactions in biology Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsMake an oral presentation.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Half of the course is based on lectures, while in the other half practical experiences and projects (computational and experimental) are provided to the students. Expected student activities Attending lectures, completing practical experiences, reading assignments, presenting a scientific paper, doing a project, writing a report, presenting the results of a project Assessment methods Projects assessment during the semester Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "BIO-680", "name": "Practical - De Palma Lab", "description": "Cell heterogeneity if the tumor microenvironment. Content The students will study the cellular composition of mouse tumors by performing analytical flow cytometry and immunofuorescence staining of tumors. The major stromal cell types that infiltrate mouse tumors will be identified and analyzed. Note Note that while the course is open to all first year EPFL doctoral students, priority will be given to EDMS students, given that they are mandated to take three of EDMS practical modules. Note also that doctoral students from the De Palma laboratory cannot take this course. Access is limited to 3 students. Assessment methods Project report."}
{"courseId": "ENG-466", "name": "Distributed intelligent systems", "description": "The goal of this course is to provide methods and tools for modeling distributed intelligent systems as well as designing and optimizing coordination strategies. The course is a well-balanced mixture of theory and laboratory exercises using simulation and real hardware platforms. Content \u00a0 Introduction to key concepts such as self-organization and software and hardware tools used in the course Examples of natural, artificial and hybrid distributed intelligent systems Modeling methods: sub-microscopic, microscopic, macroscopic, multi-level; spatial and non-spatial; mean field, approximated and exact approaches Machine-learning methods: single- and multi-agent techniques; expensive optimization problems and noise resistance Coordination strategies and distributed control: direct and indirect schemes; algorithms and methods; performance evaluation Application examples in distributed sensing and action \u00a0 Keywords Artificial intelligence, distributed robotics, sensor networks, modeling, machine-learning, control Learning Prerequisites Required courses Fundamentals in analysis, probability,\u00a0and\u00a0programming for both compiled and interpreted languages Recommended courses Basic knowledge in statistics, specific programming language used in the course (C and Matlab), and signals and systems \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design a reactive control algorithmFormulate a model at different level of abstraction for a distributed intelligent systemAnalyze a model of a distributed intelligent systemAnalyze a distributed coordination strategy/algorithmDesign a distributed coordination strategy/algorithmImplement code for single robot and multi-robot systemsCarry out systematic performance evaluation of a distributed intelligent systemApply modeling and design methods to specific problems requiring distributed sensing and actionOptimize a controller or a set of possibly coordinated controllers using model-based or data-driven methods Transversal skills Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods Ex-cathedra lecture, assisted exercises, and course project involving teamwork Assessment methods Continuous control with final written exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Bibliography Lecture notes, selected papers and book chapters distributed at each lecture. Websites http://disal.epfl.ch/teaching/distributed_intelligent_systems/ Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=6391"}
{"courseId": "MSE-490(a)", "name": "Research project in materials I", "description": "The student applies the acquired skills to an academic or industrial project. Content The students are confronted with the realization of an engineering project integrating several aspects of Materials science. This project will allow them to apply, to concrete problems, skills of domain and transversal skills acquired during their studies. The projects are available on the web sites of IMX laboratories or other laboratories approved by SMX Section. \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manage an individual research projectApply the comptences to a specific subjectDesign researchAssess / Evaluate the results criticallyCompose the project in written form in a scientific reportExpound the project in oral form for a scientific audienceDevelop expertise in a specific area of researchPresent data coherently and effectively Transversal skills Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art.Summarize an article or a technical report.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Collect data.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information."}
{"courseId": "BIO-441", "name": "Nutrition: from molecules to health", "description": "We will introduce the fundamentals of nutrition and its impact on human health and disease. Then we will introduce a concept and strategy termed \u00e2\u0080\u009cIntegrated systems approach\u00e2\u0080\u009d, i.e. a multidisciplinary methodology to better define human health based on holistic phenotyping of human individuals. Content Fundamentals of nutrition and its impact on human health and disease Discussion of traditional and novel experimental designs for evaluating the role of nutrition in human health Introduction and current utility/challengtes of omics technologies for nutritional and health sciences, with emphasis on the characteristics of the technologies (genomics, proteomics, metabolomics, lipidomics, micronutriment analysis) Translations and applications of molecular phenotyping in the areas of human ageing and metabolic/gastrointestinal health. Molecular signaling pathways and regulation of nutrient uptake and utilization Concept and utility of molecular phenotyping and integrated systems analysis. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Define the basics of nutrition and its impact on human healthDemonstrate knowledge about current omics technologies and their utility and limitations for human nutrition and health researchDevelop a molecular and systems understanding of the role of nutrition in healthDefine key molecular and cellular pathways that control glucose and energy homeostasis Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Summarize an article or a technical report.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking Teaching methods Lectures and exercises \u00a0 Expected student activities Reading, analysis and presentation of articles."}
{"courseId": "MSE-466", "name": "Wood structures, properties and uses", "description": "The presentation of tree growth and formation of wood anatomical structures, linked to the description of specific physical and mechanical properties, makes it possible to understand the different forms of utilisation of this material, including aspects of sustainable development Content Overview of forest management in function of the tree species and concept of sustainable development (specific to forestry and in the actual broad sense) Biology of wood formation Physiology and Chemistry of wood Microscopic and macroscopic structures of the main softwood and hardwood species (identification tests) Biological, physical and mechanical prop. of woods Forms of uses in function to the properties Modern wood-based materials and their applications Life cycle assessments and potentials for sustainability. Keywords Trees/Wood/Anatomy/Structures/Properties/Utilisations Learning Prerequisites Required courses General knowledge\u00a0in material science Recommended courses Building materials, structures, properties Important concepts to start the course General notions of ecology Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the different services provided by the forestsDescribe the wood anatomical structure of the main speciesInterpret the wood properties as a function of its structureSketch the forms of utilisation of timbers as a fonction of their propertiesCharacterize the relationship between species, structures, properties and usesIdentify with a hand lens the 10 main species of Central Europe Transversal skills Take responsibility for environmental impacts of her/ his actions and decisions.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods Frontal and student-centered t., insight in laboratory work, student presentations Expected student activities Presentation (general portrait) of a tree species, linked with a specific form of wood utilisation (teams of 2- 4\u00a0students) Assessment methods Oral : wood species presentation and specific wood technology topicWritten : wood identification test, knowledge of features and properties, and their correlations Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No Forum No Resources Bibliography [see french version] Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Comportement thermo-hydrom\u00e9canique du bois / NaviUnderstanding Wood / Hoadley Notes/Handbook A polycopy is distributed, and a personal collection of small wood samples."}
{"courseId": "MGT-552", "name": "Corporate governance", "description": "This course will introduce the participants to the question of how firms are and should be governed. It will also highlight the evolution of such \"corporate governance\" over time. Content This course will address corporate governance from an organizational and institutional point of view: it will illustrate how corporate governance has evolved over time and will cover both theory and relevant practices. In terms of content, the course will: - Highlight the main issues of corporate governance (e.g., the relationships between the owners, the board, and firm management, and the relationships between the company and its major stakeholders; - Provide concrete examples of \"good\" and \"bad\" corporate governance; - Outline key principles of corporate governance; - Present the main tools for assessing corporate governance practices; - Discuss the relevant theories underlying corporate governance practices (e.g., theories of organizations, institutions, governance, organizational behavior, leadership, new institutional economics, power, and agency). Keywords Corporate governance, shareholders, stakeholders, principal-agent relations Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses None Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Demonstrate the ability to conduct an analysis of the corporate governance of an organization Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources. Teaching methods Lectures by the professorThe participants develop their own case during the course Expected student activities Conduct an analysis of the corporate governance of an organization of their choice Assessment methods Continuous assessment combining: 15% active participation in the course70% final document of 30 pages produced by the participants15% oral presentation at the end of the course Supervision Office hours Yes Others Fridays 12-14 Resources Bibliography See syllabus at: http://mir.epfl.ch Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Chair Management of Network Industries MIR Corporate governance / Mallin Websites http://mir.epfl.ch"}
{"courseId": "BIO-468", "name": "Scientific literature analysis in Computational molecular biology", "description": "The goal is to learn to analyze a paper critically, asking whether the data presented support the conclusions that are drawn. The analysis is presented in the form of a summary abstract and critical, constructive referee's report. Content The goal of the course is to teach you to read a paper critically and understand its content. We will examine published papers and discuss which conclusions can be justified and which require some wishful thinking. We will dissect papers in the field of `Computational Molecular Biology', discussing recent development, as well as classics. More specific areas will include `Systems biology approaches for gene expression analysis', `Population genetics of adaptation', `Molecular modeling'. Each week, we will ask you to evaluate a paper, and one of the participants will lead the discussion (oral presentation, journal club). Each of you will be expected to produce a summary of the main findings in the proper context, and an assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the paper. You will present the paper from this standpoint. This will require you to study background material so that your presentation places the paper in context. The assessment will be based on your oral presentations, written submissions and participation in the discussions throughout the course. There will be an exam in the final week of the course, in which you will have to provide a written assessment of a paper. Keywords critical reading, computational biology Learning Prerequisites Required courses None, but a good knowledge of basic biology and bioinformatics is desirable. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Transversal skills Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingContinue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions. Teaching methods Lectures to give background information required to read the paper Group discussion of paper Written exam at the end of the course Expected student activities Oral presentation of paper, singly or in group. Read background literature to present the paper in an appropriate context. Prepare a written abstract of the paper, and a critical, constructive evaluation of the paper. Assessment methods In course assessment of the quality of the written abstract and referee's report. In course assessment of the oral presentation, and participation in discussions. Written examination in the final week of the course. This is likely to be preparation of an abstract and/or referee's report for a paper that will be provided on the day of the examination. More details will be given during the course."}
{"courseId": "BIO-714", "name": "Mechanisms of cell motility", "description": "Mechanisms of cell motility Content 1. Overview of different types of cell motility. Mechanisms of bacterial motility and chemotaxis. 2. Eucaryotic cell motility: flagellated and ciliated cells, crawling cell motility.3. Motile machinery: types of the cytoskeletal structures, principles of assembly of cytoskeletal filaments (treadmilling, dynamic instability).4. Motile machinery: accessory proteins, regulation of assembly and supramolecular organization of the cytoskeleton.5. Methods to study cytoskeletal dynamics: live digital fluorescence microscopy, photoactivation, photobleaching, fluorescence speckle microscopy, and others.6. Mechanisms of actin assembly in protrusion at the leading edge of the cell. 7. Biophysics of protrusion, forces and modeling.8. Cell-substrate attachment: molecular composition and dynamics of adhesion sites. 9. Introduction to motor proteins, active cycle, steps and forces.10. Microtubule-dependent motors, role in intracellular transport and mitosis.11. Myosin superfamily of motor proteins, non-conventional myosins in intracellular transport and hearing.12. Myosin II, coordination of protrusion, attachment and contraction in the cell translocation.13. Signaling to motility and the origins of cell polarity (directional sensing in chemotaxis, PH-domain proteins, small GTPases, calcium).14. Interaction between actin and microtubules in cell polarization and motility (budding yeast model, animal cell mitosis and cytokinesis, cell migration).\u00a0 Note Learning outcomes The course will be given in 14 weekly sessions, each either a 2h lecture or 1.5h lecture followed by 30 min presentation by one of the attendees and a guided group discussion. Presenters will discuss original papers related to this day's lecture topic. \u00a0 This course requires a minimum of 4 participants and is limited to 15 participants. Keywords cell migration, cytoskeleton, actin, myosin, microtubules Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses basic biology"}
{"courseId": "MSE-490(c)", "name": "Specialisation project in materials", "description": "The student applies the acquired skills to an academic or industrial project. Content The students are confronted with the realization of an engineering project integrating several aspects of Materials science. This project will allow them to apply, to concrete problems, skills of domain and transversal skills acquired during their studies. The projects are available on the web sites of IMX laboratories or other laboratories approved by SMX Section. \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manage an individual research projectApply the comptences to a specific subjectDesign researchAssess / Evaluate the results criticallyCompose the project in written form in a scientific reportExpound the project in oral form for a scientific audienceDevelop expertise in a specific area of researchPresent data coherently and effectively Transversal skills Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art.Summarize an article or a technical report.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Collect data.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information."}
{"courseId": "PENS-201", "name": "Making structural logic", "description": "The workshop provides second year students with the opportunity to apply theoretical structural principles in an applied context through the collaborative design of a concrete formwork that tests structural and material limits. Content The workshop will: 1. explore a structural theory through applied investigation; 2. use reiterative testing and design to develop an idea; 3. explore the limits of materiality and dimensioning such that design failure can be learned from; 4. and challenge students to collaborate in diverse intellectual, creative and hands-on situations across disciplinary backgrounds. Building on the \"Cantilever: making structural logic\" workshops that took place over the past two years, this year the research will move from working with wood, to studying concrete, allowing the workshop to build links to the Unit\u00e9 d'Enseignement Argamassa Armada, that looks at the reinforced concrete research of the Brazilian architect Jo\u00e3o Filgueiras Lima (known as L\u00e9l\u00e9). Through this overlapping with the UE, the Semaine ENAC will provide students with a context to the applied research that they are themselves undertaking. The objective of the week will be for students to design a concrete element that has a minimal dimension, where the element's fragile formwork tests the limits of a reinforced concrete system. The second year ENAC program marks a moment when theoretical learning is confronted by constraints inherent in applied research. The Semaine ENAC has an important potential to address this shift and the larger objective of the current proposal is to provide students with the tools to take part in such a dynamic. Teaching methods Working at 1:1 scale will require students to use drawing, model, calculation and collaborative investigations to design prototypes, details and a successful scheme. Testing sessions throughout the week and the students' documentation of this testing, will push designs to failure and lead to a reconsideration and redesign of the proposal. Expected student activities 1. Drawing across disciplines (1-hour lecture). This lecture will look at the ways drawing has been used as a tool for research and design by architects and engineers throughout history and at different scales of investigation. The distinctions between sketch, hard-line and diagrammatic drawings will be developed through historical and contemporary examples. The role that drawing plays as a tool for interdisciplinary communication will also be examined and students will be encouraged to develop their projects using different forms of drawing as a primary means of research. 2. Knowledge production (1-hour lecture). This lecture will look at different theoretical approaches to thinking about knowledge, both in terms of how it is generated and how it can be categorized or distinguished. The discussion is relevant for the interdisciplinary context of the workshop in the way it asks questions about distinctions between applied and theoretical research. For example, the relations between episteme/techne, between mimesis/poieisis, between inductive/deductive reasoning, provide a theoretical framework for the students to understand research through making. 3. Material investigations : wood, concrete, steel (1 hour lecture/visit). This module looks at the behavioral properties of different materials and is structured around visits to material-testing laboratories on the EPFL campus. 4. L\u00e9l\u00e9 (Argamassa Armada): (1 hour lecture). This exchange will introduce Semaine ENAC students to the research being conducted in the Argamassa Armada Unit\u00e9 d'Enseignement and will comprise: a. A short introduction to the work of L\u00e9l\u00e9 and the system of reinforced concrete that he developed in Brazil. b. Presentations by 3rd year UE students. This direct, vertical exchange between disciplines and between years of study, led by the students themselves, we hope can nurture an engagement and responsibility towards the collective research that is being undertaken between the two interdisciplinary modules. 5. Fabrication (6, 4-hour collaborative blocks). In this final module, students will work in interdisciplinary teams to develop a concrete form-work that pushes material limits. The module will be introduced at the beginning of the week with students working each day to design and fabricate a proposal. The theoretical inputs received from points 1, 2, 3 and 4 will inform the decisions and design. Modules 1-4 provide an interdisciplinary framework for the workshop that opens paths for future questioning. They are essential to the success of the week and provide a context and spirit for the investigation. Nevertheless, the 1:1 fabrication will occupy the largest part of the students' time and energy: in bringing together students from the different ENAC schools, this opportunity to design, calculate and build a 1:1 structure offers a unique chance to directly experience ways of thinking, working together, and making. The human exchanges engendered by the project could test the disciplinary boundaries that sometimes prevent students from exploring -- on both a personal and intellectual level ' the other sections within the school. The 1:1 fabrication also confronts students with the power of scientific discovery through the observation of nature; forces, materials, behavior and failure become a direct vehicle for learning."}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-433", "name": "Biotechnology lab (for CGC)", "description": "Students apply basic techniques in molecular biology to clone a cDNA of interest into an expression plasmid in order to produce its protein product in mammalian cells. They purify the recombinant protein and characterize it biochemically. Content Growth of E.coli in simple shaker flasks and in small biore-actors. Isolation of plasmid DNA from overnight E.coli cultures and analysis by restriction digest. Basic mammalian cell culture techniques. Cell lysis and extraction of intracellular fluorescent protein. Analysis of a recombinant product by ELISA (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay). Analysis of (recombinant) protein by SDS-PAGE. Peptide mapping of proteins and analysis by chromatography. Detection and quantification of DNA by fluorescent dye. Bioinformatic: computer-based analysis of DNA sequences. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Pharmaceutical Biotechnology (BIOENG-437) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Interpret experimental resultsAnalyze DNA and proteinsAssess / Evaluate data obtained in wetlab experimentsHypothesize the underlying causes of observed phenomenaProduce a scientific report Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Write a scientific or technical report.Collect data.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking Teaching methods Practical course Biotechnology Laboratory Assessment methods Continious control Lab Reports / Tests / Lab notebook"}
{"courseId": "ChE-437", "name": "Bioprocesses and downstream processing", "description": "This course aims at a more advanced coverage of the basic aspects discussed in module ChE-311. It is however of a stand-alone nature, and even students who have little knowledge on bioprocess development shall benefit as well from this module. Content Manfred Zinn Upstream processing: introduction and\u00a0 basics in cultivation Bioprocess design for batch, fed-batch\u00a0 and chemostat\u00a0 cultures Special bioprocesses and applications Kurt Eyer Bioreactors & Fermenters: Basics Characterization of biological reactor\u00a0 systems Scale-up procedure:\u00a0science or art? Applied examples and economic aspects\u00a0 of industrial bioprocesses Simon Crelier Downstream processing: introduction and\u00a0 liquid-solid separation Cell lysis and precipitation Liquid-liquid extraction Adsorption and chromatography Membrane-based separations Polishing steps and latest trends Keywords Bioprocess engineering: Basic function of a bioreactor, different types of bioreactors, agitation and oxygen transfer, upstream processing, sterilization techniques, bioprocess automation, PAT, Liebig's law, mass and energy balances, oxygen requirements, yield coefficients,\u00a0growth kinetics, Monod kinetics,\u00a0microbial growth on defined and complex media, substrate inhibition,\u00a0feed strategies, product formation, high cell-density fed-batches, chemostat, nutrient limitation, wash-out, optimal productivity, scale-up. Downstream processing: significance of DSP; chemical and biotechnological DSP;\u00a0 purity; yield; (bio)activity retention; physical and thermal separations;\u00a0equilibrium; kinetics, sedimentation;\u00a0centrifugation; filtration;\u00a0cake and filter resistance; cell lysis;\u00a0high pressure homogenizator; bead mill;raffinate; extract; partition coefficient; equilibrium line; operating line; graphical solutions;\u00a0ATPS; precipitation; precipitation agents;\u00a0Cohn equation; adsorbent and adsorbate;\u00a0adsorption isotherm; Langmuir; Freundlich; adsorption kinetics;\u00a0breakthrough curve; ion exchange; hydrophobic interaction; affinity chromatography; SEC; van Deemter equation;\u00a0cross-flow; membranes; transmembrane pressure; osmotic pressure; retention factor; molecular weight cut-off;\u00a0downstream bottleneck; convection vs diffusion; monolith and membrane chromatography; single-use equipment; ABC approach. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Since this lecture is open to students from various backgrounds, no course is required as a mandatory prerequisite. Recommended courses ChE-311 Biochemical Engineering Ph\u00e9nom\u00e8nes de transfert Introduction au g\u00e9nie chimique I, II Techniques de s\u00e9paration I, II Basic knowledge in microbiology, biochemistry\u00a0and process engineering would constitute a helpful background (although not mandatory) for a better understanding and mastering of the material to be\u00a0presented in this lecture (a short list of recommended readings can be made available if desired). Important concepts to start the course This course heavily relies on the basic concepts of process engineering, mass and heat transfer, equilibrium and kinetics. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Integrate Concepts and knowledge from various domains (biology, process engineering, (bio)chemistry)Discuss the merits, disadvantages and characteristics of the different types of bioreactors as well as their mode of operationDimension unit operationsInterpret data or observations from case studiesChoose an appropriate fermentation or purification strategyPredict the outcome or the performance of a unit operation or specific equipmentJustify your choices and assumptionsSolve calculation problems Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Manage priorities.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods The course will be held under the form of lectures also featuring the treatment of examples, the discussion of case studies and exercises. Expected student activities Regularly attending the course is the best way to achieve the learning goals with a minimal amount of personal work at home. The proposed exercises and case studies are integrated to the lectures. They illustrate and complete the theoretical aspects presented during the course, and playing an active part in their resolution will make the learning process more efficient. \u00a0 Assessment methods An examination will take place at the end of the semester. The exam will be written if 9 candidates or more have signed up, and oral otherwise. Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No Others The three lecturers shall be available for enquiries or questions, be it per e-mail or telephone."}
{"courseId": "MATH-409", "name": "Algebraic curves and cryptography", "description": "The goal of this course is to introduce basic notions from public-key cryptography based on algebraic curves over finite fields. We will introduce basic cryptographic schemes as well as discuss in-depth the discrete logarithm problem for elliptic and Jacobians of higher genus curves. Content Topics may include, but are not limited to:\u00a0 Introduction to algebraic curves\u00a0 Elliptic and hyperelliptic curves\u00a0 Jacobians of algebraic curves\u00a0 Cantor arithmetic Elliptic curve discrete logarithm problem\u00a0 Index calculus methods for Jacobians\u00a0 Pairing-based cryptography\u00a0 Keywords algebraic curves over finite fields, public key cryptography, discrete logarithms, pairing-based cryptography Learning Prerequisites Required courses Abstract Algebra required (groups theory, rings, fields, field extensions, finite fields) Recommended courses Math 317 (Galois theory) Math 489 (Number Theory in Cryptography) COM-401 (Security and Cryptography) Teaching methods Weekly lectures, problem sets and programming assignments.\u00a0 Assessment methods Weekly problem sets - 50% of the final grade\u00a0 Programming assignements - 20% of the final grade\u00a0 Final exam - 30% of the final grade\u00a0 Supervision Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "EE-550", "name": "Image and video processing", "description": "This course covers fundamental notions in image and video processing, as well as covers most popular tools used, such as edge detection, motion estimation, segmentation, and compression. It is composed of lectures, laboratory sessions, and mini-projects. Content Introduction, acquisition, restitutionTwo-dimensionnal signals and systems, Elementary signals, Properties of two-dimentional Fourier transform, Discretization (spatial and spatio-temporal artefacts), Two-dimensional digital filters, Two-dimensional z-transform, Transfer function. Captors, monitors, printers, half-toning, color spaces.Multi-dimensional filtresDesign of Infinite Impulse Response and Finite Impulse Response filters, Implementation of multi-dimensional filters, Directional decomposition and directional filters, M-D Sub-band filters, M-D Wavelets.Visual perceptionNeural system, Eye, Retina, Visual cortex, Model of visual system, Special effects, Mach phenomena and lateral inhibition, Color, Temporal vision.Contour and feature extraction, segmentationLocal methods, Region based methods, Global methods, Canny, Mathematical morphology. Segmentation, Motion estimationVisual information codingOverview of the information theory and basics of rate-distortion, Conventional techniques : predictive coding, transform coding, subband coding, vector quantization, Advanced methods : multiresolution coding, perception based coding, region based coding, directional coding, fractals, Video coding : motion compensation, digital TV, High definition TV. Standards: JPEG, MPEG, H.261, H.263 Keywords Contour detection, motion estimation, segmentation, human visual system, image compression, video compression Learning Prerequisites Required courses Fundamental notions of signal processing Recommended courses Signal processing for communication Important concepts to start the course Sampling, quantization, transforms, programming, algorithms, systems \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Create simple image processing systemsCreate simple video processing systemsCompare image processing toolsCompare video processing toolsSelect appropriately optimal image and video processing tools Transversal skills Make an oral presentation.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, laboratory sessions, mini-projects Expected student activities Written report of laboratory sessions, oral presentation of mini-projects, \u00a0comprehension of various notions presented during the course, resolve simple problems of image and video processing. \u00a0 Assessment methods Laboratories, mini-project, oral exam Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes Others Students are encouraged to ask for appoitment with the professor any time outside of teaching hours Resources Bibliography handouts of image and video processing course Fundamentals of Digital Image Processing, A. K. Jain \u00a0 Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Fundamentals of Digital Image Processing / Jain Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/enrol/index.php?id=333"}
{"courseId": "ChE-311", "name": "Biochemical engineering", "description": "This course introduces the basic principles of bioprocess engineering and highlights the similarities and differences with chemical engineering. Without going into the fundamentals, it proposes an overview of the techniques for fermentation as well as product purification (DownStream Processing). Content Biochemical engineering The cell as a biocatalyst, its needs and performance Bioreactor systems Bioprocess analytics and control Bioprocess design Batch, fed-batch, and continuous culture \u00a0 Downstream Processing (DSP) Selection of a purification strategy Liquid/solid separations and cell lysis Liquid/liquid extraction and precipitation Adsorption and chromatography Membrane techniques Trends and trend-setters in DSP Keywords Bioprocess engineering: Structure of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells, cell components, elemental composition of cells, metabolic pathways (repetition), uptake system, membranepotential, basic functions of a bioreactor, types of bioreactors, agitation and oxygen transfer, upstream processing, sterilization techniques, bioprocess automation, PAT, Liebig's law, mass and energy balances, oxygen requirements, yield coefficients, requirements for a successful batch, growth kinetics, Monod kinetics, stoichiometric model, integral medium design, microbial growth on defined and complex media, substrate inhibition, cell physiology of nutrient limited batch cultures, batch growth extended, direct and indirect estimation of biomass, feed strategies, product formation, high cell-density fed-batches, chemostat, nutrient limitation, wash-out, optimal productivity, growth physiology, two-stage chemostat. Downstream processing: significance of DSP; chemical and biotechnological DSP; biomolecules; purity; yield; (bio)activity retention; physical and thermal separations; thermodynamics; equilibrium; kinetics, sedimentation; terminal settling velocity; centrifugation; filtration; filtration cake; compressibility;\u00a0 cake and filter resistance; cell lysis; cell wall structure and composition; high pressure homogenizator; bead mill;raffinate; extract; partition coefficient; equilibrium line; operating line; graphical solution; extraction yield; ATPS; precipitation; heat; pH; electrolytes; solvents; polymers; Cohn equation; adsorbent and adsorbate; active charcoal; adsorption isotherm; Langmuir; Freundlich; adsorption kinetics; fixed-bed adsorption; expanded bed adsorption; breakthrough curve; ion exchange; hydrophobic interaction; affinity chromatography; van Deemter equation; particles and solutes; suspensions and solutions; cross-flow; membrane structure; transmembrane pressure; osmotic pressure; retention factor; molecular weight cut-off; concentration; fractionation; diafiltration; downstream bottleneck; convection vs diffusion; monolith and membrane chromatography; single-use equipment; ABC approach Learning Prerequisites Required courses No mandatory prerequisite course. Basic knowledge in\u00a0microbiology, biochemistry and process engineering are however a plus, and would help understand and master the different concepts presented in the course. Recommended courses \"Ph\u00e9nom\u00e8nes de transfert\", \"Introduction au g\u00e9nie chimique I & II\" \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course Reaction kinetics Mass balances (stationary and transient) Heat, momentum and mass transfer Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Distinguish the different types of bioreactorsDimension bioreactors and separation equipmentsCompare the various modes of fermentationCarry out calculations of yields in biomass or productSelect appropriately a bioprocess configurationInterpret results based on taught conceptsPropose adequate strategies for the development of bioprocesses or purification protocolsDifferentiate between chemical engineering and bioprocess engineering Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsAccess and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods The module is taught in weekly 3 hours blocks comprising 2 hours lecturing and 1 hour exercises (with assistants) Expected student activities A regular attending of the course is the best way to achieve the learning goals with a minimal amount of personal work at home. The proposed exercises illustrate and complete the theoretical aspects presented during the course. An active participation to the exercise sessions is then highly recommended. Assessment methods A written exam will be held at the end of the semester."}
{"courseId": "EE-518", "name": "Analog circuits for biochip", "description": "Introduction to analog CMOS design for Remote Biosensors on Chip. Understanding and designing of active and remotely powered biosensing systems. Content Principles of biosensing: Target/Probe Interactions Electrochemical biosensing: three-electrode electrochemical cell and its equivalent circuits Basic CMOS configurations\u00a0for electrochemical biosensing Voltage-ramp generators on chip\u00a0 Current readers: current-to-voltage and current-to-frequency conversion Wireless transmission in lossy media: issues on temperature, specific absorption rate (SAR) and efficiency Regulation aspects of wireless transmission close or in living matter: maximum value of the SAR and the temperature with respect to the frequency of operation and the body tissue. Power suppliers: non-rechargeable battery, rechargeable battery, super-capacitor, and storing capacitor Different types of remote powering coupling between control units and remote biosensors Passive (load modulation and backscattering) and active transmitters for RF communication System Configuration for remote powering operation and data communication. Keywords OpAmp, CMOS, biosensors, RF communication, Remote Powering Learning Prerequisites Required courses Electronics I and II Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design complete devices for remote biosensing at system levelDesign simple analog circuits for the biosensor frontendDesign simple analog circuits for the RF data communicationDesign simple analog circuits for the remote powering operationAssess / Evaluate appropriate sources of information Teaching methods Ex cathedra, and exercises"}
{"courseId": "EE-543", "name": "Advanced wireless communications: algorithms and architectures", "description": "Students will extend their knowledge on wireless communication systems to spread-spectrum communication and to multi-antenna systems. They will also learn about the basic information theoretic concepts, about channel coding, and bit-interleaved coded modulation. Content Channel coding Channel capacity, convolutional codes, Viterbi decoder, Turbo codes, LDPC codes, hard- and soft-output receivers Spread-spectrum modulation Principle of spread-spectrum modulation, RAKE receiver and diversity, code division multiple access, UMTS/HSDPA Multi-antenna communication Capacity of multi-antenna systems, spatial multiplexing MIMO receivers Hard- and soft-output MIMO detection , Linear and successive cancellation receivers, maximum-likelihood receivers \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the limits of communication systems using basic information theoretic conceptsExplain basic coding techniquesDevelop and simulate multi-antenna receiversDevelop and simulate communication systems (transmitter and receiver) based on DSSS modulation and CDMADevelop and simulate coded communication systems Teaching methods Ex cathedra with computer exercises/labs Assessment methods Continuous control with presentation of a final project"}
{"courseId": "ME-484", "name": "Numerical methods in biomechanics", "description": "Students understand and apply numerical methods (FEM) to answer a research question in biomechanics. They know how to develop, verify and validate multi-physics and multi-scale numerical models. They can analyse and comment results in an oral presentation and a written report. Content Use of numerical methods in biomechanics through some examples (tissue engineering, mechanical biology, artificial organs, external lectures from academics and industry) Partial Differential Equations reviewed in this context. General physics (solid, fluid, heat, transport) reviewed and extended through examples. Finite Element Method explained through practical examples. Multi-physics and coupling problems Importance of verification and validation Practical examples discussed in classroom Weekly exercises in different fields of biomechanics Group projects Keywords Biomechanics, numerical methods, multi-physics, coupling Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Partial Differential Equations Linear algebra General Physics (solid, fluid, heat) Numerical analysis Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Calculate the kinematics and the forces in articulations, B3Compute shear stresses in blood in particular flow conditions, B4Be able to compare the range of validity of different constitutive laws, B7Implement a constitutive law in a simulation software, B8Describe the feedback loop that, starting from a mechanical signal translated into a chemical signal, allows for the adaptation of the mechanical properties of tissues, B9Compute the stresses and strains at the interface of an implant and in the surrounding tissues, B10Compute the kinematics and forces in an implant, B11 Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Write a scientific or technical report.Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods The course is divided into ex cathedra sessions, with interactive examples. Exercises are organised to applied concepts presented in the course. A mini-project is carried out in groups. Examples, exercises and mini-projects are done with Comsol. Expected student activities Attend cours and do interactive exemples Do the exercices Do a project in a group Assessment methods Midtem text (1/4) Oral presentation of project (1/4) Written rapport of project (1/4) Writtn exam (1/4) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "BIO-636", "name": "Practical - Cole Lab", "description": "An introduction to antibacterials. Teach steps in drug discovery. Introduction to protein crystallography. Content Students will learn how antibiotics work and what approaches are currently being used to find new ones. This will include whole cell screens, target-based screens, structure-based drug design. Note Note that while the course is open to all first year EPFL doctoral students, priority will be given to EDMS students. Note also that doctoral students from the Cole laboratory cannot take this course. Access is limited to 4 students. Keywords Antibacterials, susceptibility testing, assay development, crystallography, in silico docking and modeling. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Training in microbiology/biochemistry."}
{"courseId": "MATH-635", "name": "Functional Data Analysis", "description": "Functional data analysis combines nonparametric statistics and stochastic processes, to develop statistical theory for data structures best described by the formalism of functional analysis. This course introduces the background needed to begin understanding research level questions in the field. Content Overview of necessary operator theory background (spectral theory in Hilbert spaces, perturbation theory, reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces, inverse problems); Probability theory in infinite dimensional Hilbert spaces (notion of expectation and covariance of a random element in a Hilbert space, continuity and mean square continuity, analytical properties of covariance operators, Karhunen-Lo\u00e8ve expansions, weak convergence and tightness); Spectral methods for statistical inference (smoothing and regularisation, first and second order inference, functional principal components, functional linear model, large sample theory)."}
{"courseId": "COM-407", "name": "TCP/IP networking", "description": "In the lectures you will learn and understand the main ideas that underlie and the way networks are built and run. You will be able to apply the concepts to the smart grid. In the labs you will exercise practical configurations. Content LECTURES: 1. The TCP/IP architecture\u00a02. Layer 2 networking; Bridging; the Spanning Tree Protocol. Bellman Ford. \u00a03. The Internet protocol versions 4 and 6 4. The transport layer, TCP, UDP, sockets 5. Distance vector, link state routing. Optimality of routing. Interdomain routing, BGP.\u00a06. Congestion control principles. Application to the Internet. The fairness of TCP. Flow based networking. Reservations for quality of service.\u00a07. Hybrid constructions and tunnels, MPLS, VPNs. VPNs. 8. Selected advanced topic. LABS: 1. Configuration of a network, virtual machines and GNS3 2. MAC; NATs and troubleshooting 3. Socket programming 4. Interior routing 5. Congestion control and flow management 6. BGP Keywords TCP/IP Computer Networks Learning Prerequisites Required courses A first programming course Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Run and configure networksUnderstand the main ideas that underlie the InternetWrite simple communicating programsUse communication primitives for internet applications or in the smart grid Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions. Teaching methods Lectures with clickers Labs on student's computer and in the Internet Engineering Workshop Expected student activities Participate in lectures Participate in graded clicker test every other week Make one lab assignment every other week, including handing in a written report Optional: research exercise: gather information about a specific topic and explain it to class Assessment methods Theory grade = max(40% clicker test 60% final exam, final exam)Practice grade = average of labs Final grade = harmonic mean of theory grade and practice grade. The research exercice may give a bonus of at most 0.5 points in 1-6 scale. \u00a0 Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-448", "name": "Introduction to particle accelerators", "description": "The course presents basic physics ideas underlying the workings of modern accelerators. We will examine key features and limitations of these machines as used in accelerator driven sciences like high energy physics, materials and life sciences. Content Overview, history and fundamentalsTransverse particle dynamics (linear and nonlinear)Longitudinal particle dynamicsLinear acceleratorsCircular acceleratorsAcceleration and RF-technologyBeam diagnosticsAccelerator magnetsInjection and extraction systemsSynchrotron radiation\u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design basic linear and non-linear charged particles opticsElaborate basic ideas of physics of acceleratorsUse a computer code for optics designOptimize accelerator design for a given applicationEstimate main beam parameters of a given accelerator Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools"}
{"courseId": "MGT-641(d)", "name": "Technology and Public Policy - (d) Technology policies for grand and global challenges", "description": "This course is about how to structure a policy response to the so-called grand challenges (climate change or global health).It examines mission-oriented R&D programs in various sectors as well as specific policy instruments to learn about the best ways to accelerate innovations in a given sector. Content 1 - Context, problems The definition and identification of societal Grand Challenges Difficulties and problems raised by the Grand Challenges of our time - \"the Moon and the Ghetto\" argument The policy debate - sector neutral policy versus sector non neutral policy and the Washington consensus The need for restoring a non neutral-sector policy approach and the centrality of policy design 2 - Lessons from the past ICT revolution, life science, agriculture 3 - Policy design Beyond principal-agent governance and the principle of self discovery Some specific policy instruments : public procurement for innovation; ex ante prizes 4 - The approach of smart specialisation strategy as an example The students will have to write an individual term paper on a case of policy addressing a Grand Challenge (preferably within their field of expertise (energy, health, IC, agrofood and water, etc..) LEARNING OUTCOMES By the end of the course, the student must be able to: to understand the centrality of technology policy in order to meet Grand Challenges and to appreciate the role, procedure and design's implications of sector non neutral policies in order to address any Grand Challenge Keywords Grand Challenge, smart specialisation, self-discoveryNon neutral sector policy"}
{"courseId": "MGT-641(b)", "name": "Technology and Public Policy - (b) Technology, policy and regulation", "description": "The course offers an introduction to technology policy and regulation with a particular focus on the infrastructures. In these infrastructures technology policy and regulation basically translates into sectoral (e.g., energy, transport, water) and cross-sectoral approaches (information society). Content This course introduces the participants to the issues of technology policy and regulation from a political science and and an institutional economics perspective. It will focus mainly on the infrastructure industries, where technology policy andregulation is particularly relevant, such as energy, transport, communications, along with some environmental industries (water, wastewater, waste). Participants will, ibn particular learn about the main policies in these areas, especially at European, but also global levels (if available), as well as about policies at selected country levels (United States, Switzerland, etc.). A special focus of the course will be the issue of regulatory policies and regulation of these infrastructure industries, driven, as they are, by the European Commission (e.g., electricity and gas market regulations). The course is organised around the policy and regulation in the main infrastructures, namely: - module 2: energy policy and regulation (electricity, gas, coal, oil) (4 hours)- module 3: transport policy and regulation (road, rail, air, urban public transport) (4 hours)- module 4: communications policy and regulation (telecommunications, postal services, internet) (4 hours)- module 5: environmental services policy and regulation (water, wastewater, waste) (4 hours) In addition, there will be an introductory and a concluding module along the following topics: - module 1: introduction (infrastructure) technology policy (2 hours) and regulation (2 hours)- module 6: a conceptualization and critical analysis of (infrastructure) policy and regulatory change from both a government (2 hours) and industry (2 hours) perspective. The class in organised in block, and students are evaluated on a term paper. The paper should analyse policies and regulations in a particular infrastructure sector from either the perspective of government (national, EU), an industry (associations) or a firm in a given industry. LEARNING OUTCOMES By the end of the course, the student must be able to:\u00a0 to be knowledgeable about the various infrastructure policies and regulations, the nature of policies and regulation in these sectors, as well as the dynamics of both the industries and corresponding policies and regulations; capable of executing a corresponding personal analysis Keywords Policies for infrastructures; regulatory policies; regulation; energy, transport; communications"}
{"courseId": "CS-522", "name": "Principles of computer systems", "description": "This advanced graduate course focuses on key design principles underlying successful computer and communication systems, and teaches how to solve real problems using ideas, techniques, and algorithms from operating systems, networks, databases, programming languages, and computer architecture. Content A modern computer system spans many layers: applications, libraries, operating systems, networks, and hardware devices. Building a good system entails making the right trade-offs\u00a0(e.g., between performance, durability, and correctness)\u00a0and understanding emergent behaviors - the difference between great system designers and average ones is that the really good ones make these trade-offs in a principled fashion, not by trial-and-error. In this course we develop such a principled framework for system design, covering the following topics: Modularity, Abstraction, and Layering Indirection and Naming Locality End-to-end / State partitioning Virtualization Atomicity and Consistency Redundancy and Availability Interpretation, Simulation, Declarativity Laziness vs. Speculation CAP Theorem, DQ Principle, Harvest/Yield Least Privilege, Minimum TCB Learning Prerequisites Required courses Principles of Computer Systems (POCS) is targeted at students who wish to acquire a deep understanding of computer system design or\u00a0pursue research in systems. It is an intellectually challenging, fast paced course, in which mere survival requires a solid background in operating systems, databases, networking, programming languages, and computer architecture. The basic courses on these topics teach how the elemental parts of modern systems work - POCS picks up where the basic courses leave off and focuses on how the pieces come together to form useful, efficient systems. To\u00a0do well in POCS,\u00a0a student must master the material of the following courses: COM-208 Computer networks CS-208 Computer architecture CS-210 Functional programming CS-305 Software engineering CS-322 Introduction to database systems CS-323 Operating systems Recommended courses The following EPFL courses cover material that significantly help students' understanding of POCS concepts; however, these courses are not strictly required: CS-320: Computer language processing CS-470: Advanced computer architecture CS-422: Database systems COM-407: TCP/IP networking Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design computer and communication systems that work wellMake design trade-offs (e.g., performance vs. correctness, latency vs. availability)Anticipate emergent system behaviors (e.g., failure cascades, security vulnerabilities)Integrate multiple techniques, ideas, and algorithms from different fields of computing/communication into a working system Teaching methods Online video lectures Ex cathedra Small-group discussions and exercises Projects Expected student activities Complete assigned reading and writing assignments Assimilate online video lectures Attend recitations and plenary sessions Participate actively in class (physically and online) Work in a team on design projects Assessment methods Throughout semester 20% homework 40% design projects 40% exam during semester Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes Others See http://pocs.epfl.ch/"}
{"courseId": "ENV-320", "name": "Physics and chemistry of the atmosphere", "description": "The course provides an introduction to the physical and chemical processes that govern the atmospheric dynamics at small and large scales. The basis is laid for an in depth understanding of our atmospheric environment and the climate system. Content Atmospheric Thermodynamics Large Scale Atmospheric Motion Radiative Transfer in the Atmosphere Energy Balance Atmospheric Boundary Layer Weather and Climate Systems Tropospheric and stratospheric ozone Aerosols and clouds Homogeneous and heterogeneous reaction classifications and rate expressions Gas-particle mass transfer Collision theory for molecules, particles, and hydrometeors Atmospheric Measurments and Instruments Keywords Atmospheric Physics, Atmospheric Chemistry, Radiative Transfer, Weather, Climate, Aerosols, Clouds, Ozone, Air Pollution, Boundary Layer, Energy Balance, Nucleation Learning Prerequisites Required courses Important concepts to start the course Differential, integral, and vector calculus Linear algebra Basic physics (Momentum Conservation, Dynamics) Basic chemistry (reaction rates, chemical thermodynamics) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Compute simple atmospheric quantitiesExplain atmospheric phenomenaInterpret atmospheric observationsDescribe fate and transport of atmospheric constituentsIdentify similarities with other environmental fieldsCategorize important atmospheric scales Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Lectures, Exercises, Laboratory (Practical work) Expected student activities Attending lectures and participation in laboratory Complete exercises and practical work Studying (written) course material Assessment methods Written exam (55%) Exercise assignments (40%) Laboratory participation and report (5%) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Others Prof. Lehning: Thursday from 14:00 to 16:00 Teaching Assistants: 1 full day (tbd) Resources Bibliography John M. Wallace and Peter V. Hobbs: Atmospheric Science, An Introductory Survey Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Atmospheric Science / Wallace Notes/Handbook See Moodle Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=13910"}
{"courseId": "ME-482", "name": "Biomechanics of the musculoskeletal system", "description": "The basis for a mechanical description of the musculoskeletal system are presented. This description is based on the concepts of solid mechanics, physiology and anatomy of the musculoskeletal system. Concrete examples of the development of implants are also covered. Content Biomechanics at the body level (functional anatomy; joint kinematics; forces in the joints). Biomechanics at the tissue level (large deformations; passive and active constitutive laws; identification; laws of evolution). Biomechanics in clinical applications (orthopaedics biomechanics; traumatology, implant development). Mini-project in group. Keywords Constitutive laws, Identification, Orthopedics Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Elementary knowledge in physiologyMaster the concepts of conservation laws Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the link between the physiology and the mechanical properties of a tissue, B2Calculate the kinematics and the forces in articulations, B3Identify the mechanical behaviour of tissues and fluids from experimental data, B5Propose or develop specific constitutive laws, B7Describe the feedback loop that, starting from a mechanical signal translated into a chemical signal, allows for the adaptation of the mechanical properties of tissues, B9Describe the procedure to identity a constitutive law, B14 Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Write a scientific or technical report.Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods The course is organised as theoretical sessions and includes the resolution of exercises and the realization of a mini-project within a group. Expected student activities Exercises to do. Realization of a mini-project in groups of 4, oral presentation of the project and a report of maximum 15 pages. Assessment methods The mini-project will be presented (group presentation) Written exam on the theoretical part. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "AR-202(c)", "name": "Studio BA4 (De Vylder & Taillieu)", "description": "A house is the simple topic of this studio. A matter of simple complexity. Defining a space by its \"corner\"; looking for a \"cascade\" of rooms; arriving at the simple complexity of a \"house\". Learning about a house is learning about architecture. That house in two different contexts. A house twice. Content See AR-201(c) Studio BA3 (De Vylder & Taillieu)."}
{"courseId": "BIO-663", "name": "Practical - Trono Lab", "description": "Introduction to the vectorology then learning how to design and produce a lentivector. Content We will start with an introduction to the vectorology then learn how to design and produce a lentivector. The goal will be to discover how a modified lentivirus can be transformed to be used as a powerful tool to mediate stable expression of a transgene in vitro in cells and in vivo in a mouse model. Note Note that while the course is open to all first year EPFL doctoral students, priority will be given to EDMS students, given that they are mandated to take three of EDMS practical modules. Note also that doctoral students from the Trono laboratory cannot take this course. Access is limited to 3 students. Keywords Lentivectors. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basic knowledge in cellular biology and virology."}
{"courseId": "MICRO-607", "name": "Highlights in microtechnology", "description": "The course offers 10 intensive days of lectures and practicals on various topics at the hearth of microtechnology. It is articulated on two thematic weeks: \"general methods for microtech-nology\" and a second topic changing every year. Content The course include lectures and laboratories on the following subjects: Micro-Optics, MEMS, 3D micro-machining, Microrobotics, Nanomaterials, Self-assembly processes, AFM, SEM, TEM... Other subjects are treated, which change every year. Each lecture lasts 2 hours and is given by a different professor. Students may choose 2 laboratories out of 5, each one lasting two afternoons. In addition, shorter workshops are organized on micromachining, microrobotic, microassembly and microactuators.Two visits to High-Tech companies are organized. Note The course offers high-specialized lectures in the mornings, and hands-on experiences or visits to high-tech companies in the afternoons.A maximum of 30 students is accepted for the course. This number is set by the laboratories capacities: 6 students per laboratory. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Master in Microtechnology or a related topic."}
{"courseId": "ChE-301", "name": "Transport phenomena I", "description": "- Derivation of differential balances equations for momentum, heat and mass. In this context, the derivation of the Navier-Stokes equation is applied for the calculation of velocity profiles in some systems. - Recognize and apply the analogies between the three types of transfer. Content \u00a0 - Equations for molecular flow: material (Fick's law); heat (Fourier's law); momentum (Newton's law). - Analogy between the three types of transfer (linked by their diffusivities). - Non-Newtonian fluids (Bingham and Ostwald models, thixotropic and rheopectic fluids). - Differential and integral mass balance. - Derivation and application of the continuity equation. - Integral and differential momentum balance. - The Navier-Stokes equation (analytical solution for simple systems). - The perfect fluid: Euler and Bernoulli equations, validity domain. - Pressure drop in a complex flow circuit. Use of the Moody diagram. - Momentum, heat and mass transfer in multiple variables systems (solving partial differential equations).\u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 Keywords Transport phenomena, Continuity equation, Navier-Stokes equation, Euler and Bernoulli; equations; transfer in a system with multiple variables. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Introduction to Chemical Engineering Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze engineering problems involving transfer phenomena.Realize sustainable models for the three types of transferDeduce the initial and boundary conditions for an analytical solution of differential equationsExplore the similarities between the three types of transferDeduce pressure drop in a complex flow path. Use the Moody diagram.Investigate the transfer of momentum, heat and mass in a system with multiple variables (solving partial differential equations)Realize the identical mathematical formalism of the three types of transfer Teaching methods Lectures with exercises Expected student activities Solution of exercices Assessment methods \u00a0 Continuous control Two written tests during the semester"}
{"courseId": "FIN-610", "name": "International Finance", "description": "The course familiarizes students with research topics in international finance. Content 1. Introduction: The Role of the International Financial Market2. Risk Sharing in International Business Cycles3. International Asset Pricing4. International Portfolio Choice5. Financial Crisis and Contagion6. Currency Unions and Sovereign Default7. Capital Flows, Current Account Openness and Development Assessment methods Multiple."}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-447", "name": "Chemical biology - tools and methods", "description": "Chemical biology is a key discipline in biomedical research for drug discovery, synthetic biology and protein functional annotation. We will give a broad perspective of the field ranging from seminal classical experiments to state-of-the-art approaches to dissect and perturb biological systems. Content What is Chemical Biology?Protein biochemistry and biophysics in chemical biology\u00a0Block 1: Small molecules & Proteins: Bio-orthogonal conjugation chemistries Chemical probes and tool compounds Target discovery and validation Activity based protein profiling and chemoproteomics Bioinformatics resources to aid chemical biology Protein post-translational modifications and methodologies Drug discovery Protein engineering and in vitro evolution Protein chemical ligation Design of biological sensors Block 2: Chemical Biology in cells: Phenotypic assays Chemical genetics In situ visualization (labeling and fluorescent sensors/probes) Cellular uptake mechanisms Block 3: Chemical Biology in animal models Genetic loss of function vs chemical perturbation Chemical probes applied in tissues and living organisms In vivo visualization of biological activities Crossing the blood-brain barrier to engage targets in the brain \u00a0 Keywords Chemical biology, drug\u00a0discovery, high throughput screening, fluorescence microscopy, imaging, protein biochemistry, protein biophysics, post-translational modifications, cancer, biotechnology, and scientific writing. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Biological Chemistry I, II and III \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Interpret key experimental strategies to address scientific problems with chemical biology techniquesAssess / Evaluate chemical biology literatureDesign valid chemical biology experiments to answer biological questions Transversal skills Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingAccess and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Make an oral presentation.Write a scientific or technical report.Summarize an article or a technical report. Teaching methods Lectures Presentation and discussion of scientific literature Interactive lectures with computer-based exercises Exercises Expected student activities Attendance to classes Presentation of scientific literature Discussion of scientific literature Class participation\u00a0 \u00a0 Assessment methods Final Exam (open book) 50% Two-page essay 30% Journal Club presentation 20% Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "HUM-403(a)", "name": "Experimental cognitive psychology I", "description": "The media frequently report on trendy studies that have been conducted in experimental cognitive psychology, and which inform the public on \"human functioning\" and its causes. We teach students basic skills and requirements when performing, understanding and comprehending such studies. Content Performing an empirical study in\u00a0cognitive psychology Cognitive psychology covers all aspect of our mental world, whether it is perception, attention, memory, language, mental imagery, emotion, concept formation, problem solving, creativity, decision making, reasoning, etc. To assess cognitive functioning, psychologists working in this field have traditionally applied experimental scientific methods. In this course, we will elaborate research questions that are closely linked to those of the respective project supervisor. By accounting for the recent published scientific literature, students will elaborate the study questions determined with their respective project supervisor, and will develop their own research activities performed in groups of max 4 students. After having read the relevant literature and decided on a hypothesis (autumn term), students will refine their method (autumn term), test participants (data collection) (spring term), treat the data for statistical analysis (spring term), and write a final scientific report (spring term). Keywords experimental psychology, cognition, scientific methods, empirism, statistics, hypothesis testing, reading scientific articles, writing scientific article, testing human subjects, data collection - input - analysis, colour, emotion, free will, consciousness, body image and body representation Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Introduction to cognitive psychology (HUM 213), Psychology of emotion (HUM 239), Psychology of belief (HUM 316). Statistics. Interest in empirical studies on human population. NOTE: This is a demanding course that expects students to perform experimental laboratory work. We are particularly interested in teaching students who have a profound interest and dedication to the scientific study of human behaviour and thought at the crossroad between psychology and the neurosciences. Prior knowledge in scientific methods and statistics is specifically welcome. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose a methodDesign an experimental study in cognitive psychologyFormulate a hypothesisInterpret empirical dataProduce a scientific reportTest human subjects in a laboratory settingSearch scientific literature Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Negotiate effectively within the group.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Manage priorities.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Group work Expected student activities Attending weekly meetings, contributing to team work, communicating reliably and responsibly with group members and project supervisor, find research articles, read research articles, understand research articles, share knowledge with group members, write your own research report Assessment methods Independent evaluation at the end of both the autumn and spring term (grade associated to 3 ECTS). Autumn term: Knowledge acquisition and elaboration of a project plan. Determination and set up of research method. Evaluation of written introduction to the research report Spring term: Experiment is performed, data collected, data input, data analysis. Evaluation of the final written research report consisting of a title page, abstract, introduction, method section, result section, discussion and bibliography. Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Others Weekly meetings with supervisor or during alternative appointments with supervisor and own group. If appropriate, exchange via email, to be confirmed with respective supervisor \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "CS-712", "name": "Topics on Datacenter Design", "description": "Modern datacenters with thousands of servers and multi-megawatt power budgets form the backbone of our digital universe. In this course, we will survey a broad and comprehensive spectrum of datacenter design topics from workloads, to server architecture and infrastructure. Content The course will use the primer from ClayPool lecture series on Warehouse-Scale Computing by Barrosso and Hoelzle, and technical research papers from recent years in venues corresponding to the topic. The course will be run as a seminar series with student presentations followed by an in-class discussion. The students will be graded based on presentations and short reviews written for each reading assignment.\u00a0Datacenter basics: computing at scale of tens of thousands of serversQuality of service, energy proportionality and total cost of ownershipWorkloadsProgramming paradigmsSystem softwareVirtualizationNetworkingStorage systemsProcessors and memory systemsResource managementInfrastructure: power distribution and cooling Keywords datacenter, warehouse-scale computing, scale-out Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Computer Systems Assessment methods Oral presentation"}
{"courseId": "ME-302", "name": "Mechanical design principles", "description": "We will study the working principles and physics of essential mechanical components for diverse applications in engineering mechanics. The course will serve as a vehicle to introduce and synthesize new mechanisms to strengthen the often-intuitive design processes. Content 1. Introduction.\u00a0 Course outline. Standards, Engineering codes, Probability, Reliability, Design factor, Eco-pod project description 2. Structural analysis, Simple truss, Project requirements Biblio/ citation rules \u00a0 3. Exercises / Project definitions and task management 4. Simple joints: Zero force members method of sections space trusess, linkages 5. Friction elements I: Internal forces In rigid bar, cables, angle of friction, wedges 6. Fixed joints: Bolts and threads (\u00ab\u00a0self-locking\u00a0\u00bb or not?), Joint fixations (bolted and welded) 7. Power transmission: Flat power belts /cable tension 8. Brakes: Gears, Bearings, Collar bearing, Disk brakes 9. Compliant mechanisms, Springs 10. Moving joints I: Virtual work, kinetics of bars 11. Moving joints II: Planar kinematics of a rigid body 12. Relative motions, last report check w/ RG 13. Course overview I, presentation 15 min (group 1-8) 14. Course overview II, presentation 15 min\u00a0 (group 9-16) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Use experimental and numerical tools to report the design projectDesign functional structures based on multiple DoF links and jointsOptimize dimension, material, and fixation choicesAnalyze the structural integrity and their working rangeModel a mechanism with fixed and varied geometric parametersList the functions of an existing or new product based on the specifications. (CP4)Choose the main conceptual design solutions and identify the respective components to fulfill the perfomance, technology and price constraints. (CP5)Identify the class, the constitutive elements and the performances of a machine or a mechanical system (CP15)Formulate the modeling hypothesis and choose the solution strategy (CP6)Analyze multi-criterion parameters and optimize solutions.Design a system based on specifications utilizing suitable tools. (CP14)Choose the models and analysis criterions following the specifications (CP7) Assessment methods 1. Midterm exam ( 40% of grade) 2. First report\u00a0 (0 %) 3. Semi-\u00adfinal report (0 %) 4. Final report (30% of grade) 5. Presentations (30 % of grade)"}
{"courseId": "MSE-635", "name": "Scanning and Analytical Transmission Electron Microscopy", "description": "This intensive course discusses advanced TEM techniques such as: scanning TEM; analytical TEM using EELS and EDX; aberration corrected imaging; and image simulation. It is intended for researchers who have taken the introductory TEM course MSE-637 or who have a good background in conventional TEM. Content This intensive course is intended for researchers who are potential new users of transmission electron microscopes and have followed the introductory doctoral course on TEM or have already a good background in conventional transmission electron microscopy. It will provide them with a basic understanding of the methods, relying on an explanation of the physics at play. \u00a0Demonstrations will be given on the microscopes. Note Written Keywords Transmission electron microscopy, EDX analysis, EELS\u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Doctoral school \"Transmission electron microscopy and diffraction\""}
{"courseId": "EE-704", "name": "Computational perception using multimodal sensors", "description": "The course will cover perceptual modalities in computers, models for analyzing people (representation, detection an localization, segmentation, tracking, recognition). Content 1. Perceptual modalities in computers. Vision, hearing, touch, smell. basic fusion principles.2. Models for analyzing people. introduction to probabilistic graphical models. Basic concepts. Bayesian Networks (BNs). Learning and inference in BNs. Dynamic Bayesian Networks (DBNs). Exact and approximate inference. Examples.3. Analyzing people. fundamental tasks.a. Representation. The problem of representation in computational perception. Global vs. local representations. Visual models for faces, heads, hands, and full-bodies (shape/appearance, exemplars, geometric models). Models and features for speech and audio processing.b. Detection and localization. Basic concepts. Detection as binary classification and as random sampling. Visual localization: skin color modeling, face localization. Audio localization: microphone arrays. Audio-visual fusion for speaker detection.c. Segmentation. Basic concepts. Visual segmentation: background subtraction. Audio segmentation: source separation, speaker turn segmentation, speaker clustering.d. Tracking. State space representation. Dynamic modeling. Human motion modeling. Multi-person tracking. Visual, audio and multimodal tracking of people.e. Recognition. Recognition tasks. Visual recognition: facial expressions, gestures, actions, interaction. Audio recognition: speech, emotion, multi-speaker events. Audio classification. Multimodal recognition: actions. Keywords Artificial perception, human representation, multi-modalities, audio, video, probabilistic model, graphical models. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Undergraduate-level knowledge of linear algebra, statistics, image and signal processing. Assessment methods written exam homeworks (includes practical work) paper presentation"}
{"courseId": "CH-424", "name": "Supramolecular chemistry", "description": "The course provides an introduction to supramolecular chemistry. In addition, current trends are discussed using recent publications in this area. Content Introduction Basics Receptors for cations Receptors for anions Receptors for neural molecules Supramolecular coordination chemistry Catenanes, rotaxanes and knots Molecular machines Supramolecular catalysis Self-replicating molecules Molecular imprinting Dynamic combinatorial libraries Foldamers Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Recall the most important non-covalent interactions.Recall analytical techniques for the analysis of host-guest systems.Assess / Evaluate the thermodynamic driving force for the formation of self-assembled systems.Recall the most important classes of receptors for anions, cations, and neutral molecules.Recall the design principles for the construction of metallasupramolecular aggregates.Differentiate rotaxanes, pseudorotaxanes, catenenaes and molecular knots and machines, and recall synthetic routes to make these compoundsRecall attempts for the bottom-up construction of molecular machines.Describe the basic concepts of self-replicating molecules, molecular imprinting, foldamers, and selection experiments with dynamic combinatorial libraries. Expected student activities Summarize and discuss a recently published research article in the area of supramolecular chemistry in form of a Powerpoint presentation. Assessment methods Written exam during the course (50%) Oral presentation during the course (50%)"}
{"courseId": "BIO-465", "name": "Biological modeling of neural networks", "description": "In this course we study mathematical models of neurons and neuronal networks in the context of biology and establish links to models of cognition. Content I. Models of single neurons 1. Introduction: brain vs computer and a first simple neuron model 2. Models on the level of ion current (Hodgkin-Huxley model) 3./4.\u00a0 Two-dimensional models and phase space analysis II. Cognition, Learning, and Synaptic Plasticity\u00a0 5. Associative Memory and Attractor Dynamics (Hopfield Model) 6:\u00a0 Synaptic Plasticity and Long-term potentiation (Hebb rule, mathematical formulation)\u00a0 7. Neuronal Populations and networks 8. Continuum models and perception 9. Competition and models of Decision making III. Noise and the neural code 10. Noise and variability of spike trains (point processes, renewal process, interval distribution) 11: Variance of membrane potentials and\u00a0 Spike Response Models 12.\u00a0 Population dynamics and membrane potential distribution (Fokker-Planck equation) 13. Dynamics in Plastic networks 14.\u00a0 Neural Code: Generalized Linear Models and Reverse Correlations Keywords neural networks, neuronal dynamics, computational neuroscience, mathematical modeling in biology, applied mathematics, brain, cognition, neurons, memory, learning, plasticity Learning Prerequisites Required courses undergraduate math at the level of electrical engineering or physics majors undergraduate physics. Recommended courses Analysis I-III, linear algebra, probability and statisticsFor SSV students: Dynamical Systems Theory for Engineers or \"Mathematical and Computational Models in Biology\" course, Felix Naef Important concepts to start the course Differential equations, stochastic processes, Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze two-dimensional models in the phase planeSolve linear one-dimensional differential equationsDevelop a simplified model by separation of time scalesAnalyze connected networks in the mean-field limitFormulate stochastic models of biological phenomenaFormalize biological facts into mathematical modelsProve stability and convergenceApply model concepts in simulationsPredict outcome of dynamicsDescribe neuronal phenomena Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Collect data.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Classroom teaching, exercises and miniproject Expected student activities miniprojects Assessment methods Written exam (67%) & miniproject (33%)"}
{"courseId": "EE-554", "name": "Automatic speech processing", "description": "The goal of this course is to provide the students with the main formalisms, models and algorithms required for the implementation of advanced speech processing applications (involving, among others, speech coding, speech analysis/synthesis, and speech recognition). Content 1. Introduction: Speech processing tasks, language engineering applications.\u00a02. Basic Tools: Analysis and spectral properties of the speech signal, linear prediction algorithms, statistical pattern recognition, dynamic programming.\u00a03. Speech Coding: Human hearing properties, quantization theory, speech coding in the temporal and frequency domains.\u00a04. Speech Synthesis: Morpho-syntactic analysis, phonetic transcription, prosody, speech synthesis models.\u00a05. Automatic Speech Recognition: Temporal pattern matching and Dynamic Time Warping (DTW) algorithms, speech recognition systems based on Hidden Markov Models (HMMs).\u00a06. Speaker recognition and speaker verification: Formalism, hypothesis testing, HMM based speaker verification.\u00a07. Linguistic Engineering: state-of-the-art and typical applications Keywords speech processing, speech coding, speech analysis/synthesis, automatic speech recognition, speaker identification, text-to-speech Learning Prerequisites Required courses Basis in linear algebra, signal processing (FFT), and statistics Important concepts to start the course Basic knowledge in signal processing, linear algebra, statistics and stochastic processes. \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: speech signal propertiesExploit those properties to speech codign, speech synthesis, and speech recognition Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods Lecture lab exercises Expected student activities Attending courses and lab exercises. Read additional papers and continue lab exercises at home if necessary. Regulary answer list of questions for feedback. Assessment methods Written exam without notes"}
{"courseId": "MSE-480", "name": "Dielectric properties of materials", "description": "Students learn about response of electrically insulating materials to electrical and mechanical fields. The emphasis is on effect of various types of defects on properties, on crystal structure/microstructure - property relations, and on ways how to engineer properties of materials for applications. Content Dielectric polarization. Dielectric relaxation in ceramics and polymers. Dielectric loss. Nonlinear dielectric properties. Hysteresis. Dielectric spectroscopy. Capacitors and insulators. Dielectric breakdown. Aging. Insulating materials for electronic packaging. Piezoelectric effect. Polar dielectrics. Coupling of thermal, mechanical and electrical properties. Electrostriction. Ferroelectricity. Ferroelectric and ferroelastic domains. Piezoelectric ceramics and polymers. Composite materials. Piezoelectric resonance. Applications of piezoelectric materials: actuators, sensors and ultrasonic transducers. Medical application of piezoelectric materials. Environmentally friendly piezoelectric material; biocompatibility and functional materials. Selected topics in multiferroic materials. Pyroelectricity and pyroelectric materials and devices. Thermistors. PTC and NTC effects. Keywords dielectrics; ceramics; single crystals; electrical conductivity; dielectric relaxation; piezoelectricity; ferroelectricity, capacitors; thermistors; actuators; sensors; resonators; composites; multiferroics; Learning Prerequisites Required courses General physics; General inorganic chemsitry; Mathematical analysis: Introduction to materials; Thermodynamics; Recommended courses Chrystallography and diffraction metods; Theory of materials: from structure to properties I Important concepts to start the course atomic and electronic structure of materials; chemical bonds; phase transitions; symmetry and materials; Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Interpret given experimental behavior of materials in terms of physical processes learned during the courseHypothesize how crystal structure, defects structure, microstructure, chemical composition affect properties of materials.Argue on advantages and disadvantages of given materials for various applications Transversal skills Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions. Teaching methods lectures; discussions; Expected student activities attendance of lectures; reading distributed written material; participating in discussions in class; Assessment methods Written exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-625", "name": "Using Mathematica to analyse and model experimental data", "description": "To learn the basics of symbolic programming using Mathematica / To understand Mathematica expressions and their use / To be able to solve linear and non-linear differentials systems / To present graphically experimental or simulated results"}
{"courseId": "ChE-452", "name": "Process development II", "description": "Familiarize the students with integrated process development and industrial technologies. Content Optimization\u00a0 Influence of process modifications\u00a0 Risk analysis introduction\u00a0 Optimum choice\u00a0 Development program definition\u00a0 Use of process simulation software\u00a0 Scale down & scale up Assessment methods Oral exam = 100% final grade Examen oral = 100% de la note finale \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-566", "name": "Large-area electronics: devices and materials", "description": "Introduction to the physical concepts involved in the description of optical and electronic transport properties of thin-film semiconductor materials found in many large-area applications (solar cells, displays, imagers, etc) and introduction to the physics of the related devices. Content This lecture will start with the general description of thin-film materials which are common in macro-electronic applications. These materials include metal oxides, disordered semiconductors and organic materials. The effect of disorder at the atomic scale on electronic states and electronic transport properties will be discussed, as well as the optical characteristics of such materials in relation to device applications. Then the device physics of various devices based on disordered semiconductors will be presented: first solar cells will be discussed and especially the relation between the material properties (absorption behavior and charge transport) on the cell efficiency. Finally other examples of large-area devices such as photo-detectors, particle sensors and Thin-Film Transistors (for flat panel displays and flat panel imagers) will be presented; the physics of these devices and some fabrication aspects will also been discussed. Keywords thin-films ordered and disordered semiconductors transparent conductive metal oxides organic semiconductors optical properties electronic properties solar cells transistors particle sensors Learning Prerequisites Required courses Semiconductor physics or Solid State Physics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Distinguish ordered and disordered semiconductors.Classify order in a solid on short, medium, and long range.Visualize the properties of shallow and deep states in a semiconductor.Predict charge transport in semiconductors with band-tails.Predict recombination of charge carriers at deep defect states.Sketch the working principle of solar cells with p-n and p-i-n junction.Sketch the operation of thin film transistors.Model the function of thin film transistors in displays, imagers, etc. Assessment methods Oral examination"}
{"courseId": "CH-628", "name": "Chemosensory receptors: Applications for biosensors and medical therapies", "description": "The course aims at providing insight into the cellular and molecular basis of smell and taste with specific emphasis on how molecules are detected by these chemosensory systems. Content 1) Introduction to the cellular and molecular architecture of the olfactory and gustatory chemosensory system. Presentation of receptors and signaling cascades with specific emphasis on molecule detection and signal processing.\u00a02) Genomics of vertebrate olfactory receptors and taste receptors. Insight into the diversity of the OR gene superfamily and the genomic organization and expression of taste receptors\u00a03) Steps towards the localization and characterization of the putative ligand binding site of ORs and taste receptors: Molecular mechanisms for recognizing and discriminating an enormous number of odors and flavors.\u00a04) Bioassays for quantitative measures of taste and olfactory responses. Evaluation of flavor- and odor-active molecules and compound screenings. Steps towards artificial chemosensory systems and industrial applications.\u00a05) Taste and odorant receptors in non-chemosensory tissues: New therapeutic options for disease treatments.\u00a06) Additional functions of odorants as chemical signals: How specific odorant molecules can regulate gene expression and cellular functions. We are continuously exposed to molecules released into our environment. Through the senses of smell and taste these molecules provide us with important information to inform us about the availability of foods and potential pleasure or danger derived from them. \u00a0The course aims at providing insight into the cellular and molecular basis of smell and taste with specific emphasis on how molecules are detected by these chemosensory systems. Examples will be discussed how taste- and olfactory receptors may be used as biosensors for food or fragrance industrial applications. Furthermore chemosensory receptors seem to be involved in additional body functions opening possibilities for novel medical therapies. Multifaceted functions of taste- and olfactory receptors and their activating molecules will be discussed requiring the active participation of the students."}
{"courseId": "ENG-430", "name": "Risk management", "description": "This course aims to enable students to master the methodology and associated tools to enable a modern risk management. It highlights the different actors, resources available and objectives while remaining economically and socially acceptable (sustainable). Content \u00a0 Management techniques Introduction to risk management Hazard and risk evaluation Identifying risks and analyzing risks (HAZOP, FMECA, FTA, ...) Risk evaluation and treatment Event analysis Tolerable risk\u00a0Modules :1. Introduction to engineering and managing risks2. Risk management principles3. Hazards evaluation and portfolio (chemical and physical hazards; chemicals, lasers, magnetic fields, cryogenics, ...)4. Risk diagnostic5. Risk reduction/mitigation6. Event analysis7. Example of practical implementation \u00a0 Keywords Risk management Acceptable risk Precautionary principle Risk matrix Risk reduction / mitigation Crisis management Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Bachelor basic\u00a0lectures\u00a0\u00a0in chemistry and physics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Integrate the parameters influencing an accidentSynthesize the complex components of a hazardous situationAnalyze a hazardous situationImplement corrective measuresInvestigate processes, procedures or equipmentsRestate an accident evolutionAssess / Evaluate the level of risk of a situationIntegrate risk into economics, social and environmental Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Take responsibility for health and safety of self and others in a working context.Take responsibility for environmental impacts of her/ his actions and decisions.Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods Lectures, exercices, pratical examples and real illustrations (movies) Expected student activities Small project Assessment methods Mid-term written exam (40%) and final project (60%)"}
{"courseId": "CS-423", "name": "Distributed information systems", "description": "This course introduces in detail several key technologies underlying today's distributed information systems, including Web data management, information retrieval and data mining. Content Web Information Management: Semi-structured data - graph data model, web ontologies, schema integration\u00a0Information Search: Web search - vector space retrieval, inverted files, advanced retrieval models, word embeddings, web search\u00a0Big Data Analytics: Data mining - associations rules, clustering, classification, model selection; Crowd-sourcing; Recommender systems - collaborative filtering and content-based recommendation Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Introduction to Database Systems Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Characterize the main tasks performed by information systems, namely data, information and knowledge managementApply collaborative information management models, like crowd-sourcing, recommender systems, social networksApply semi-structured data models, their representation through Web standards and algorithms for storing and processing semi-structured dataApply fundamental models and techniques of text retrieval and their use in Web search enginesApply main categories of data mining techniques, local rules, predictive and descriptive models, and master representative algorithms for each of the categories Teaching methods Ex cathedra exercises Assessment methods 25% Continuous evaluations with bonus system during the semester75% Final written exam (180 min) during exam session Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "MATH-463", "name": "Mathematical modelling of behavior", "description": "Discrete choice models allow for the analysis and prediction of individuals' choice behavior. The objective of the course is to introduce both methodological and applied aspects, in the field of marketing, transportation, and finance. Content 1. Introduction and examples2. Choice theory3. Data4. Binary choice5. Multinomial choice6. Nested Logit model7. Multivariate extreme Value models8. Tests9. Prediction10. Sampling11. Large scale problems12. Mixed models. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Model discrete choice Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture Expected student activities Every week, the students are supposed to read the appropriate material, according to the\u00a0schedule (the material for a given week is supposed to be read\u00a0before the lecture of that week); work on the assignments for the\u00a0laboratories. \u00a0 Assessment methods Written"}
{"courseId": "FIN-607", "name": "Empirical Asset Pricing", "description": "This course aims at understanding how to solve certain discrete-time general-equilibrium models. Content 1. Euler equation, Bellman Principle, Solving Euler equation in Gaussian case, Solving Euler equation via fixed-point techniques (value-function iteration) in univariate case.2. Solving Euler equation via fixed-point techniques (value-function iteration) in multivariate case. Discussion of paper by Tauchen (JBES), Tauchen and Hussey (E'Metrica). Discussion of Campbell-Cochrane (2000).3. Behavioral in General Equilibrium: explaining volatility, explaining skewness and kurtosis. Discussion of Barberis Huang and Santos. 4. Portfolio allocation in a discrete dynamic setting. Discussion of MacQueen and Vorkink. A digression into Corporate Finance: Discussion of Hennessy and Whited (2005), Debt Dynamics.5. Bayesian techniques into a portfolio-allocation setting. Introduction to Bayesian techniques (prior, posterior). Discussion of Barberis (1999).6 7. Predicting returns (Cochrane: discussion of paper on barking dogs). How to deal with ambiguity.8. Questions and answers. Keywords Equilibrium Models, Asset Pricing, Integration, Discrete Dynamic Programming. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Asset pricing."}
{"courseId": "HUM-370", "name": "Risk and energy", "description": "With the advent of renewable energy and non-conventional fossil fuels, our energy system is becoming increasingly complex. A growing demand for energy in a resources constrained world, our energy system will face an increasing number of risks concerning supply, economics, and major accidents. Content The course provides a risk perspective on energy transformation, transmission and use. It covers the basics of decision making under risk, applied to a range of risks and uncertainties, related to energy supply in different countries and in particular in Switzerland. Specific contents include: Methods for managing risks, from concepts and tools for risk and uncertainty management, risk attitudes and strategy management (Weber); Cases studies and examples, including supply security in Switzerland, energy transition, nuclear power generation, energy infrastructure, challenges in the electricity sector, pump storage (Vuille, Romerio); Enterprise and operational risk management by a TSO (transmission system operator), including power grid and cyber /IT risk management (Meyer, Swissgrid). 'It is really good to have the opinion of several specialists. Also, the site visit was very interesting and useful'. A 2015 student. This course is organised by the EPFL International Risk Governance Center (IRGC). It presents an introduction to decision making under risk with applications to energy the energy sector, where risk is ubiquitous. It contains four parts, each presented by a distinct lecturer: the first part (on fundamentals) introduces foundations of decision making under risk, and the three following parts provide applications. Fundamentals, Thomas Weber, EPFL CDM: Concepts: risk and uncertainty, decision analysis, value of information and flexibility. Payoff and perception: risk attitude, value at risk, managerial decision biases. Strategies: robustness, antifragility, the power of inaction, qualitative approaches. Issues: Fran\u00e7ois Vuille, EPFL Energy Center: Context in which risks related to energy develop: security of supply, climate change, and resource depletion; risks and opportunities related to energy transitions; building secure and sustainable energy futures. Franco Romerio, UniGe: Risks related to nuclear power generation, risks related to electricity market liberalization, natural disasters and energy infrastructures. Kurt Meyer, Swissgrid: Role of a transmission system operator (TSO); enterprise risk management and risk assurance in the context of Swissgrid; management of operational risks and cyber threats from a TSO's perspective; practical examples of risks and mitigation opportunities. A site visit to Swissgrid Control is planned. Marie-Valentine Florin, EPFL IRGC: risk governance, a comprehensive approach to complex risk problems. Keywords Decision Making under Uncertainty, Risk Assessment and Management, Energy, Energy Transition, Electricity, Electric Network, Nuclear Power, Natural hazard, Transmission System Operations, Power Grid Management, Risk Assurance. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Formulate a risk problem in the field of energyInvestigate opportunities associated with riskUse decision-making tools/techniquesPresent a case studyApply models and concepts from SHSExplore the literature and relevant dataAnalyze basic issues in decision making under uncertaintyDemonstrate insight in European and Swiss power grid management challenges and its specific risks Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Take account of the social and human dimensions of the engineering profession.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking Teaching methods Ex-cathedra lectures, group discussions, case study presentations by students. Expected student activities Students actively participate in class and work in groups on case studies. Assessment methods Group project related to risk in energy. Deliverables include presentation slides or a poster. Supervision Others During class or by appointment."}
{"courseId": "CH-427", "name": "Coordination chemistry and reactivity of f elements", "description": "The course will provide a synopsis of the chemistry of f elements (lanthanides and actinides) covering structure, bonding, redox and spectroscopic properties and reactivity. The coordination and organometallic chemistry of these ions will be discussed with an overview of their main applications. Content - Definition and origins - Basic properties - Spectroscopic properties and luminescence - Magnetic properties - Coordination chemistry -Organometallic Chemistry -Application of Gd in Magnetic Resonance Imaging -Application of Lanthanide Luminescent properties -Applications of lanthanides in catalysis and organic synthesis -Coordination polymers -Application of actinides: from nuclear industry and environmental concerns to small molecule activation and molecular magnets \u00a0 Keywords coordination chemistry-organometallic chemistry-luminescence-magnetism-MRI contrast agents-lanthanides-actinides-coordination polymers Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Coordination chemistry; Organometallic chemistry\u00a0 \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course Basic principles of coordination chemistry (geometries, bonding , hard-soft theory, basic crystal field theory) knowledge of simple ligands Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Recall the most important geometries and oxidation states of f elementsRecall the most important applicationsPredict stabilities of compounds with respect to ligand dissociation, hydrolysis, oxidation and disproportionationPredict reactivity of organometallic compoundsDiscuss spectroscopic and magnetic propertiesCategorize the different reactions of organometallic compoundsPredict reaction pathwaysDesign coordination compounds with specific properties Teaching methods lectures exercises Expected student activities attendance of lectures with active participation completing exercise reading written material and discuss it during courses Assessment methods Written Exam \u00a0 \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "AR-476", "name": "UE U : Cartography", "description": "This teaching unit aims to experiment with the medium of cartography as a means of spatial representation, and as a tool for reading, perceiving and changing the territory. Content Cartography is a language for reading and writing about space, a tool for both seeing and changing the territory. It is the act of translating the complex totality of a place into a readable narrative code, an articulation of marks (lines, dots, blots, voids and colour) on a surface. This U.E. presents a didactic method based on four sequential steps'frame, selection, system, symbol'and four practical exercises'drawings, tracing, map, experimental map. During its course, we will refer to a wide range of historical references and question established stereotypes of spacial representation, such as linear perspective, the navigation chart or the God's eye view. The course will point out\u00a0the links between cartography and landscape painting, so as to convey how both result from a process of critical selection and symbolic encoding, regardless of whether they are produced through analogue or digital techniques. Keywords Cartography, drawing, landscape, territory, system, symbol, aesthetics, palimpsest. Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Basic hand sketching skills appreciated but not mandatory. Abstraction, composition, urban palimpsest, territorial networks and structures. Learning Outcomes Interpret the network forms of complex territories.Identify hierarchies of landscape systems.Compose spatial narratives from the critical selection of those systems.Formalize territorial structures through hypothetical maps.Represent those structures through clear graphical compositions.Elaborate a personal visual language of representation.Carry out a regular and consistent use of visual journals for experimental research. Transversal skills Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingUse a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods The content of the class will be transmitted through a series of lectures and practical individual assignments followed by desk critiques and intermediate reviews. Classes will occasionally include the close reading of historical maps and the analysis of texts or passages on cartography/landscape. The final submittal of the U.E. will be an experimental map that exposes both the graphical skills acquired by the student and his/her understanding of the depicted urban condition. Students will also be\u00a0requested to submit a visual journal developed throughout the semester. Assessment methods Continuous assessment.\u00a0 Intermediate exercises and desk critiques: 50% of grade.\u00a0 Review of final work: 30% of grade. Visual Journal: 20% of grade. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No Forum No Resources Bibliography AKERMAN, James R. and KARROW JR, Robert W., eds., 2007. Maps: Finding Our Place in the World. Chicago: University Of Chicago Press. BROTTON, Jerry, 2014. Great Maps. London: Dorling Kindersley. CLARK, Kenneth, 1950. Landscape Into Art. London: John Murray COSGROVE, Denis, ed., 1999. Mappings (Critical Views). London: Reaktion. CORBOZ, Andr\u00e9, 2001. Le Territoire Comme Palimpseste et Aurtres Essais. Paris: Les \u00c9ditions de L'Imprimeur ECO, Umberto, 2013. The Book Of Legendary Lands. New York: Rizzoli. JACKSON, John B., 1980. The Necessity for Ruins. Amherst: University of Massachussetts Press. HARLEY, J. B., 2002. The New Nature Of Maps: Essays in the History of Cartography. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press. MAROT, S\u00e9bastien, 2010. L'art De La M\u00e9moire, Le Territoire et L'Architecture. Paris: \u00c9ditions de la Villette. ROGER, Alain, 1997. Court Trait\u00e9 Du Paysage. Paris: Gallimard. SIMMEL, Georg, 2007. \"The Philosophy of Landscape.\" in Theory, Culture & Society [e-journal] 24(7'8), p.20'29. THROWER, Norman J. W., 2008.\u00a0Maps and Civilization: Cartography in Culture and Society.Chicago: University Of Chicago Press. TURCHI, Peter, 2004.\u00a0Maps Of The Imagination: the writer as cartographer.\u00a0San Antonio: Trinity University Press. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Great maps / BrottonMaps / AkermanThe necessity for ruins and other topics / JacksonDe la n\u00e9cessit\u00e9 des ruines et autres sujets / JacksonL'art de la m\u00e9moire, le territoire et l'architecture / MarotCourt trait\u00e9 du paysage / RogerMaps and civilization / ThrowerLandscape into art / ClarkThe new nature of maps / HarleyMaps of the imagination / TurchiL'art du paysage / ClarkThe book of legendary lands / EcoHistoire des lieux de l\u00e9gendes / Eco Notes/Handbook Each student will be handed a course booklet containing information on methods, assignments and schedule. Websites http://laba.epfl.ch/http://laba-ueu-cartography.ch/"}
{"courseId": "ENG-422", "name": "Optional project in Systems engineering", "description": "The optional project in systems engineering aims to guide students through the experience of undertaking a complex design or project from a systems perspective. Content The project will focus on work processes, optimization methods and risk management in complex engineering projects. It overlaps technical and human-centered disciplines such as industrial engineering, operations research, space systems engineering, energy and process systems engineering, systems biology, network systems engineering or control engineering, organizational studies, and/or project management. The student will learn to consider all likely aspects of a project or system and to integrated into a whole. This experience is to simulate scenarios and problems that reflect projects in industry. Keywords industrial engineering operations research space systems engineering energy and process systems engineering systems biology network systems engineering control engineering Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses ENG-421 - Fundamentals in Systems Engineering Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Appreciate the benefits of a holistic and interdisciplinary approach to systems engineeringManage and comprehend complexity in systemsDevelop and utilize mathematical models and algorithms to solve real complex systems problems Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Make an oral presentation."}
{"courseId": "ENG-616(3)", "name": "Energy Regulation (2016)", "description": "The purpose of the course is to introduce the participants to the main legal rules and principles of Swiss, European and International energy law on selected topical issues, and to examine the main contractual framework in the oil and gas sector."}
{"courseId": "CS-432", "name": "Computational motor control", "description": "The course gives (1) a review of different types of numerical models of control of locomotion and movement in animals, (2) a presentation of different techniques for designing models, and (3) an analysis of the use and testing of those models in robotics and neuroprosthetics. Content General concepts: Importance of numerical models in a scientific approach, introduction to nonlinear dynamical systems and neural network models. Numerical models of motor systems : Neural network models of control of locomotion, rhythm generation in central pattern generators, reflexes, force fields, sensory-motor coordination, and balance control. Numerical models of the musculo-skeletal system: muscle models, biomechanical models of locomotion, Spring-Loaded Inverted Pendulum (SLIP) model, gait classification, applications to legged and humanoid robots. Numerical models of arm movements: invariants of human arm movements, different hypotheses about human motor control: inverse models and equilibrium point hypothesis. Numerical models of sensory systems : Proprioception and vestibular system. Visual processing in the retina, salamander and primate visual systems, applications to machine vision. Neuroprosthetics: short overview of current developments, analysis of how modeling can be used to improve interfaces between machines and the central nervous system Numerical exercises: The course will also involve numerical exercises in which students will develop their own numerical simulations of sensory-motor systems in Matlab and in Webots, a dynamical robot simulator (with weekly sessions with assistants and the professor). Keywords Numerical models of animal motor control, locomotion, biomechanics, neural control of movement, numerical models Learning Prerequisites Required courses None Recommended courses None Important concepts to start the course Programming in C, Matlab, good mathematical background (dynamical systems) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Argue about the validity of modelsFormulate models of motor controlHypothesize mechanisms of motor controlDesign models of motor controlTest the models Transversal skills Write a scientific or technical report.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Lectures and numerical exercises on a computer using Matlab and Webots, a dynamic simulator of robots (with weekly sessions with assistants and the professor) Expected student activities Attending lectures Read scientific articles Develop numerical models of the locomotor control circuits of a simulated animal in Matlab and Webots Writting short scientific reports describing the models and analyzing the results of the simulations Assessment methods Oral exam (50%) and a series of reports for the numerical exercises (50%) Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "EE-533", "name": "Data converter circuits and systems", "description": "The main focus of this work is on analysis and design of data converter circuits. Data converters are key building blocks in almost all modern products and have a very wide application in automotive industry, watches, mobile phones, computing systems, sensor network, biomedical system, etc. Content Introduction (descriptoin, applications, demands, general perspective) Algorithms to convert analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog signals Analog-to-digital converter topology, first example, description, analysis, assessment\u00a0 Digital-to-analog converter topology,\u00a0first example, description, analysis, assessment\u00a0 CMOS device modeling and performance (speed, noise, gain, etc) Overview on different ADC architectures\u00a0 Overview on different DAC architectures Critical circuit building blocks (comparators, samplers, amplifiers, etc) Auxiliary circuits (reference circuits) Keywords Information technology Integrated circuit system design\u00a0 analog to digital converter digital to analog converter CMOS circuits analog circuits circuit architecture Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze data converter architecturesAnalyze circuit topologiesAssess / Evaluate performance of data converter circuitsDesign architecture for data convertersDesign circuit topologies for data convertersDesign circuit elements and size transistors Expected student activities Careful studying the lecture courses Using simulation tools (such as Matlab, Python, Octave, Spice, etc) to implement simple data converter structures Work and try to solve optional exercises \u00a0 Assessment methods Mid-term exam Final exam Quize\u00a0 Optional projects and exercises \u00a0 Resources Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Analog-to-digital conversion - ebookData converters - bookData converters - ebookAnalog-to-digital conversion - book"}
{"courseId": "CH-311", "name": "Molecular and cellular biophysic I", "description": "This course covers the basic biophysical principles governing the thermodynamic and kinetic properties of biomacromolecules involved in chemical processes of life. The course is held in English. Content The conformation of biological macromolecules and membranes Forces in biomolecules Protein primary and secondary structure Tertiary structure of proteins DNA structure Conformations of unstructured polymers in solution (Gaussian chain models, freely-jointed chain, wormlike chain) Spectroscopy of Biomolecules Biomolecular absorption spectroscopy (UV absorption, circular dichroism) Biomolecular fluorescence X-ray crystallography of proteins Conformational equilibria and dynamics of polypeptides and proteins Thermodynamics of protein folding (folding equilibria, calorimetry of protein folding transitions) Kinetics of protein folding (folding pathways, intermediates) Conformational transitions in proteins (native state fluctuations, allostery, structural rearrangements in enzyme catalysis) Thermodynamics and kinetics of alpha-helix -\u0080\u0093 coil transitions Transport phenomena and stochastic processes in biology Fluctuations in biology Macromolecular diffusion Thermodynamics and kinetics of ligand-receptor interactions Equilibrium binding reactions Binding inhibition Kinetics of ligand binding Keywords biophysics, biophysical chemistry, protein, nucleic acid, structure, thermodynamics, kinetics, protein folding, spectroscopy, fluorescence, absorption, helix-coil, fluctuations, receptor, ligand Learning Prerequisites Required courses Biochemistry I Chemical thermodynamics Important concepts to start the course General chemical and biochemical concepts Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the molecular forces governing biomolecular structureExplain experimental strategies to investigate structure and dynamics of biomoleculesJudge the quality, validity and significance of biophysical experiments in the research literatureMake order of magnitude estimates for biophysical processesApply kinetic models to understand dynamic processes in biomoleculesEstablish basic knowledge on kinetic processes in proteins and in protein-ligand interactionsImplement models to rationalize ligand binding processes and interference with inhibitor compoundsDesign quantitative experimental approaches to investigate biological processes Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Summarize an article or a technical report. Teaching methods ex cathedra Expected student activities Attendance of the lectures Study of indicated materials Assessment methods Written exam Resources Bibliography \"Biophysical Chemistry\", Cantor and Schimmel, Vols 1-3 (Freeman, New York 1980) \"Molecular and Cellular Biophysics\", Meyer B. Jackson (Cambridge University Press, 2006) Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Molecular and Cellular Biophysics / MeyerBiophysical Chemistry / Cantor"}
{"courseId": "EE-555", "name": "Systems and architectures for signal processing", "description": "Study of the essential components and implementation technologies of digital signal processing and communication systems from the theoretical, algorithmic and system implementation point of view. Content Multimedia algorithms and architectures Recall of basic elements of video compression theory (coding models and entropy coders), digital TV processing, acquisition and final rendering stages, system requirements, standard and non-standard algorithms, constraints and video architectures. MPEG algorithms and systems architectures, future trends in video and multimedia processing. Digital integrated systems Overview of the state of the art of the system components architectures for video and signal processing. System behavior of different types of memories, relation with algorithmic requirements. Features and limits of current and next generation deep-submicron technologies. New challenges of CMOS based processing architectures: low power, many and multi-core platforms. Practical design case studies Specification and modeling of simple components of a video system communication component, analysis, optimization of the algorithmic behavior and analysis of the system implementation challenges. Keywords signal processing systems, video compression systems, communication systems, system architectu Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Signal processing; Programming II; Information, Computation, Communication. Important concepts to start the course Basic theory of digital signal processing, C/C or java programming, basics of digital electronics. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate the function and the behavior of the processing components of a video processing and communication system/applicationFormulate the basic theory of codingUse the basic theory of multi-dimensional signal processing for the understanding of acquisition and display of video signalsRecognize the underlying theoretical (algorithmic) and implementation components that define its performanceDetect the possible improvements and optimizations on both algorithmic and implementation sidesDeduce the implementation challenges of an application design case in terms of processing, synchronization, real-time performanceInvestigate trade-offs between performance and implementation complexitySpecify the essential behaviors and technological limitations of main types of memories that define systems implementation performanceQuantify memory system bandwidth requirements of specified algorithms Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsWrite a scientific or technical report.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions. Teaching methods Lectures and projects Expected student activities Attendance at lectures, reading written material, doing a practical project. Assessment methods Written examination assessing theoretical knowledge acquired, evaluation of the project developed in terms of comprehension of the problem and quality of the developed solution (correctness and effectiveness). Resources Bibliography C. Shannon, W. Weaver. The Mathematical Theory of Communication. Univ of Illinois Press, 1949. ISBN 0-252-72548-4. J. Rissanen, G. G. Langdon: \"Universal modeling and coding\", IEEE Trans. Inform. Theor, 1981. Leonardo Chiariglione ed. \"The MPEG representation of digital media, Springer, 2012. I.E.G. Richardson: \"H.264 and MPEG-4 Video Compression\", Wiley, 2004. G. De Haan, B. Bellers: De-Interlacing and Overview\", Proc. of the IEEE, VOL. 86, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 1998. P.A. Sarginson: \"MPEG-2 Overview of the systems layer\", BBC RD 1996/2. \u00a0 Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que The MPEG representation of digital media / ChiariglioneUniversal modeling and coding / RissanenThe Mathematical Theory of Communication / ShannonDe-Interlacing and Overview / De Haan Notes/Handbook pdf of ex-cathedra slides are available on a web site at each lesson of the course"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-734", "name": "Tokamak Plasma Control", "description": "Obtain an understanding of the principal requirements for the control of high power tokamak pulses and to understand how these can be met by applying the basic principles of control theory. Content 1. Overview of control requirements in a tokamak - current ITER design of plasma control2. Basic principles of control theory - model types, identification, controllers, LTI, non-LTI3. Design of controllers for plasma equilibrium control of ITER4. Advanced issues related to ITER plasma shape control - constraints, optimisation5. Design of controllers for kinetic control of 0-D quantities - energy and density, quantised actuators6. Advanced issues related to kinetic control of 0-D quantities7. Formulation of the control of continuous radial plasma profiles8. Advanced issues related to profile control - actuator conflict9. Stabilisation of MHD activity and current research work10. Issues related to the control of the plasma-wall interactions - divertor, wall contact11. Overview of the state of the art in the field and future tendencies in ITER"}
{"courseId": "BIO-699(m)", "name": "Training Rotation (EDMS)", "description": "Training rotations Content Doctoral students interested in conducting a training rotation must write a one page proposal delinating the educational objectives and the means by which they intend to achieve them.This proposal must be approved by the supervisor, by the host laboratory, as well as by the doctoral program director.Training rotations must take place within the first two years of doctoral studies and can last 1-4 months, with a maximum of 4 months in total.The examination procedure consists in a project report written in the style of the candidacy exam report. Note Each month of training rotation gives 1 ECTS credit. Keywords Training rotations"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-530", "name": "Nanotechnology", "description": "This course gives the basics for understanding and engineering nanotechnology: physical background, materials, structuration and analysis. Content Nanoscale phenomena Nanoscale phenomena: basic considerations Atomic structure & molecular structure & band structure Intermolecular forces & adsorption Examples of nanoscale phenomena Nanomaterials Synthesis Mechanical, optical, thermal & electrical properties Nano-fabrication & systems Nanolithography, nanoimprinting, scanning probe fabrication Nanoporous membranes, nanofluidics, self-assembly Keywords Nanotechnology, quantum phenomena, materials, synthesis, structuration, lithography, fluidics, self-assembly, properties, characterisation, microscopy, nanoprobes \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Physics (basic) Materials science (basic) Chemistry (basic) Recommended courses Solid-state physics Thin-film deposition techniques Microstructuration / MEMS Microfluidics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Define the quantum physics origin of nanoscale effectsDescribe the principal methods for nanomaterials synthesisDiscriminate between different mechanisms influencing properties of nanomaterials and nanostructures and the involved length scalesDescribethe principal nanostructuration techniquesDerive interactions between nano-scale objectsCompare the different available methods for nanostructure characterisation & observation, as well as their advantages/disadvantagesSynthesize the effects of quantum physics on nano-scale physicochemical propertiesChoose an appropriate method for nanomaterial synthesisPropose a nanostructuration technique and process optimisations Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Take responsibility for environmental impacts of her/ his actions and decisions.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Summarize an article or a technical report. Teaching methods Ex-cathedra course Expected student activities Two intermediate written tests Assessment methods Oral exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No Forum No"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-458", "name": "Metrology I", "description": "This course is a practical introduction to classical measurement techniques in a physics laboratory. The aim is to familiarise the students with data acquisition, sensors, signal processing, vacuum and cryogenics. Content I Unit systems and magnitude orders II Data acquisition and error analysis III Measurement devices IV Optical systems V Vacuum technology, cryogenics \u00a0 Keywords electrical circuits, sensors, automatic control, signal processing, analogic signals, digital signal, cryogenics, vacuum, labview Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course concept on electrical circuits, Ohm law, concepts of units, drawing a graph with appropriate scales (linear, logarithmic) concept of pressure, force, displacement Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assemble a setup for measuring physical observablesSketch graphically the result of a measurementUse measurement devicesJustify the advantage of an experimental setupRealize a measure chaine for a sensorIllustrate how a sensor worksMake a calibration Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles.Resolve conflicts in ways that are productive for the task and the people concerned.Take responsibility for health and safety of self and others in a working context.Collect data.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate. Teaching methods Hands on tutorial classes in groups of 5-6 students working on a bench Expected student activities make the planned experimental setup in the classroom and repeat at home so that the student will be able to reproduce and explain the setup Assessment methods Oral exam with assembling of an experimental setup Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Resources Moodle Link http://site moodle avec toute la documentation du cours, polycopi\u00e9 et pr\u00e9sentationshttp://moodle.epfl.ch/enrol/index.php?id=13732"}
{"courseId": "CS-450", "name": "Advanced algorithms", "description": "A first graduate course in algorithms, this course assumes minimal background, but moves rapidly. The objective is to learn the main techniques of algorithm analysis and design, while building a repertory of basic algorithmic solutions to problems in many domains. Content Algorithm analysis techniques: worst-case and amortized, average-case, randomized, competitive, approximation. Basic algorithm design techniques: greedy, iterative, incremental, divide-and-conquer, dynamic programming, randomization, linear programming.\u00a0 Examples from graph theory, linear algebra, geometry, operations research, and finance. Keywords See content. Learning Prerequisites Required courses An undergraduate course in Discrete Structures / Discrete Mathematics, covering formal notation (sets, propositional logic, quantifiers), proof methods (derivation, contradiction, induction), enumeration of choices and other basic combinatorial techniques, graphs and simple results on graphs (cycles, paths, spanning trees, cliques, coloring, etc.). Recommended courses An undergraduate course in Data Structures and Algorithms. An undergraduate course in Probability and Statistics. Important concepts to start the course Basic data structures (arrays, lists, stacks, queues,trees) and algorithms (binary search; sorting; graph connectivity); basic discrete mathematics (proof methods, induction, enumeration and counting, graphs); elementary probability and statistics (random variables, distributions, independence, conditional probabilities); data abstraction. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Use a suitable analysis method for any given algorithmProve correctness and running-time boundsDesign new algorithms for variations of problems studied in classSelect appropriately an algorithmic paradigm for the problem at handDefine formally an algorithmic problem Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture, reading Assessment methods \u00a0 \u00a0 Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes Others For details, see the course web page."}
{"courseId": "MICRO-486", "name": "Project in neuroprosthetics", "description": "The student applies knowledge and know-how previously acquired in the classroom in the context of a research project that is consistent with his/her orientation (\"Track\") choice. Content Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate experimental dataInterpret experimental dataDevelop expertise in a specific area of researchManage an individual research projectOptimize experimental protocols and data presentationPlan further experiments to test hypotheses based on previous resultsConduct experiments appropriate for the specific problem being studiedImplement appropriate technologies to address the scientific or engineering problem being studied Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingWrite a scientific or technical report."}
{"courseId": "MSE-441", "name": "Electrochemistry for materials technology", "description": "This course aims at familiarizing the student with state of the art applications of electrochemistry in materials science and technology as well as material requirements for electrochemical engineering. Content The course includes a revision of the basic concepts of electrochemistry and of the electrochemical techniques followed by the discussion of relevant applications for surface modifications (galvanic coatings technology, surface structuration, micro/nano fabrication) and energy issues (materials for batteries, fuel cells, hydrogen generation) as well materials aspects in electrochemical engineering (catalytic electrodes, analytical electrochemistry). Keywords Materials, Electrochemistry, Micro-fabrication, Coatings, Energy generation, Energy conversion Learning Prerequisites Required courses Chimie g\u00e9n\u00e9rale, Introduction \u00e0 la science des mat\u00e9riaux Recommended courses M\u00e9taux et alliages Important concepts to start the course General chemistry: thermodynamics, kinetics, equilibrium, acid-base and complexation reactions, redox reaction. Metallurgy: microstructure of metals and alloys, mechanical properties, deformation and rupture. Physics: electrical circuits, transport phenomena Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Use electrochemical concepts and methods for materials scienceDesign micro/nano materials via electrochemical processesStructure surfaces with tailored propertiesDesign appropriate materials for electrochemical systemsAnalyze electrochemical processes and devicesManage electrochemical material fabricationDescribe electrochemical reactionsFormulate requirements for energy generation and storage materials Teaching methods Ex cathedra with excercises and case studies. Expected student activities Active participation during lectures and in the resolution of excercies, group work in case studies Assessment methods Oral presentation Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No Others Meetings with teacher upon appointment establihsed by email"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-453", "name": "Quantum electrodynamics and quantum optics", "description": "This course on one hand develops the quantum theory of electromagnetic radiation from the principles of quantum electrodynamics. On the other hand it explores the main consequences of light-matter interaction in applications like optical spectroscopies and devices. Content 1. Introduction to quantum opticsFrom Einstein to our days : a historical perspective.\u00a02. Classical and quantum fields Quantization of the radiation field in Coulomb gauge. Summary of second quantization formalism for fermions. Particular quantum states of radiation (Fock states, coherent states, thermal mixture, squeezed states)\u00a03. Semi-classical theory of the light-matter interaction : optical resonances and non-linearities, the laser Dynamics of the light-matter interaction. Optical Bloch equations. Classification of optical non-linearities. The laser equations. Static and dynamical phenomena.\u00a04. Classical and quantum noise, quantum theory of measurement, quantum correlations Correlation functions of the radiation field and coherence. Quantum theory of measurement and photodetection. Interferometry and correlation functions. Entangled states of the electromagnetic field. Quantum spectroscopies Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Quantum physics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Understand the quantum theory of electromagnetic radiationUnderstand the different effects of light-matter interactionMaster the calculational techniques Teaching methods Ex cathedra with exercises, presentation of scientific articles by the students"}
{"courseId": "BIO-489", "name": "Scientific literature analysis in molecular and cancer biology", "description": "The goal is to learn to analyze a paper critically, asking whether the data presented support the conclusions that are drawn. The analysis is presented in the form of a summary abstract and critical, constructive referee's report. Content The goal of the course is to teach you to read a paper critically and understand its content. We will examine published papers and discuss which conclusions can be justified and which require some wishful thinking. We will dissect papers in the field of `Molecular Medicine/Molecular Biology, discussing recent development, as well as classics.\u00a0Most of the papers will be from fields that are covered in related courses such as Cancer Biology, so that information from them can be applied to other courses.\u00a0Each week, we will ask you to evaluate a paper, and one or two of the participants will lead the discussion (oral presentation, journal club). Each of you will be expected to produce a summary of the main findings in the proper context, and an assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the paper. You will present the paper from this standpoint. This will require you to study background material so that your presentation places the paper in context. The assessment will be based on your oral presentations, written submissions and participation in the discussions throughout the course. There will be an exam in the final week of the course, in which you will have to provide a written assessment of a paper. Keywords critical reading, molecular biology Learning Prerequisites Required courses None, but a good knowledge of basic biology is desirable. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Judge the quality of presented dataPropose additional experiments based on the based dataCritique the content of a paperContextualise the content of a paper in terms of state of the fieldJustify whether a paper should be accepted for publication or modified Teaching methods Lectures to give background information required to read the paper Group discussion of paper Written exam at the end of the course \u00a0 Expected student activities Oral presentation of paper, singly or in group. Read background literature to preent the paper in an appropriate context. Prepare a written abstract of the paper, and a critical, constructive evaluation of the paper. '"}
{"courseId": "MATH-311", "name": "Rings and modules", "description": "The students will solidify their knowledge of algebra. They will use the structure theorem of finitely generated modules over principal ideal domains. We will study simple, indecomposable, projective and injective modules. We will construct their tensor products and localization. Content -definition of modules and module homomorphisms\u00a0 -simple and free modules -exact sequences -injective and projective modules -tensor products -Noetherian rings and modules -structure theorem -Jordan normal form -localization of rings -towards Hilbert Nullstellensatz Learning Prerequisites Required courses Linear algebra Th\u00e9orie des groupes Anneaux et corps Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manipulate modules over rings.Distinguish between properties of modules.Characterize finitely generated modules over a PID.Analyze exact sequences of modules.Apply the structure theorem to Jordan normal form of matrices. Teaching methods ex chatedra course with exercise session"}
{"courseId": "BIO-679", "name": "Practical - Suter Lab", "description": "Bioluminescence imaging and data analysis Splinkerette PCR (to analyze genomic insertion site of a transgene). The students will obtain theoretical and practical insight into embryonic stem cell biology and the study of gene expression fluctuations in single cells. Content The course will start out with a lecture and a discussion on stochastic gene expression and how it impacts cell fate choices in stem cells. The different methods to study gene expression at the single cell level will be discussed, as well as experimental strategies to link gene expression fluctuations to cell fate decisions. In the practical part of the course the students will learn how to measure gene expression in single embryonic stem cells, to analyze the data and to determine the genomic insertion site of a reporter gene. Note Note that while the course is open to all first year EPFL doctoral students, priority will be given to EDMS students, given that they are mandated to take three of EDMS practical modules. Note also that doctoral students from the Suter laboratory cannot take this course. Access is limited to 3 students. Keywords Embryonic stem cells, stochastic gene expression, cell fate choice. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basic molecular biology. Assessment methods Oral"}
{"courseId": "CS-434", "name": "Unsupervised and reinforcement learning in neural networks", "description": "Learning is observable in animal and human behavior, but learning is also a topic of computer science. This course links algorithms from machine learning with biological phenomena of synaptic plasticity. The course covers unsupervised and reinforcement learning, but not supervised learning. Content I. unsupervised learning 1. Neurons and Synapses in the Brain. Synaptic Changes2. Biology of unsupervised learning, Hebb rule and LTP . 3. Hebb rule in a linear neuron model and PCA 4. Analysis of Hebb rule and application to development5. Plasticity and Independent Component Analysis (ICA) 6. Competitive Learning and Clustering7. Kohonen networks\u00a0 II. Reinforcement learning 8. The paradigm of reward-based learningin biology and theoretical formalisation9. Reinforcement learning in discrete spaces10. Eligibity traces and reinforcement learning in continuous spaces and applications\u00a0 III. Can the brain implement Unsupervised and Reinforcement learning? 11. Spiking neurons and learning: STDP12. Neuromodulators and Learning13. Long-term stability of synaptic memory14. Unsupervised learning from an optimalityviewpoint: Information Maximization Keywords synaptic plasticity learning rules learning algorithms neural networks Learning Prerequisites Required courses Analysis I-III, linear algebra, probability and statistics Recommended courses Analysis I-III, linear algebra, probability and statistics Important concepts to start the course The student needs to be able to use mathematical abstrations as well as linear algebra, probability theory and statistics, analysis and calculus. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design learning algorithmsAnalyze learning algorithms and plasticity rulesClassify learning algorithms and plasticity rulesProve convergence of batch learning rulesDevelop a learning rule based on optimization principlesFormulate on-line plasticity rulesApply unsupervised and reinforcement learning rules Transversal skills Write a scientific or technical report.Collect data.Negotiate effectively within the group. Teaching methods Classroom teaching, exercises and miniproject Expected student activities participate in class (slides are not self-contained) solve paper and pencil exercises write and run simulations for miniproject write report \u00a0 Assessment methods The final grade is composed of two mini-projects and one exam. The two mini-projects together count 1/3 of the final grade. The final exam counts 2/3 of the final grade. The exam will be written if the course has more than 40 students and oral otherwise. Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-611", "name": "Optics and technology of liquid crystal displays", "description": "Lab course - LCD assembly in laboratory Content 1) \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Introduction into displays2) \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Vision of the human eye3) \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Description of polarized light and components4) \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Polarization optics in examples5) \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Liquid crystal materials6) \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Textures of liquid crystals7) \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Liquid crystal electro-mechanics8)\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Liquid crystal optics9)\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Selected LCD operation principles10)\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Technology of LCD fabrication11)\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Optical system components of a display12)\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Illumination design Keywords Displays, polarization optics, liquid crystals, LCD technology Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Fundamentals of optics \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Define basic properties of a visual interfaceAnalyze key parameters if displaysSpecify display technologiesChoose operational principles for displaysJudge performance of visual interfaces Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Ex-cathedra \u00a0 Labcourse (6h) to build your own liquid crystal module \u00a0 Assessment methods Oral exam"}
{"courseId": "BIO-684", "name": "Hot Topics in Cancer Research", "description": "(1) To expose PhD students to cutting-edge research in the field of Cancer Research through attendance of lectures given by world-leading distinguished scientists in the field. Content (2) To introduce PhD students to state-of-the art interdisciplinary appoaches of modern cancer biology and train them to critically analyze original scientific articles by participation in a \"journal club\"comprising in-depth discussion of assigned papers by the students under the guidance of SV Professors and/or the invited lecturers. (3) To offer PhD students the opportunity to personally meet distinguished cancer researchers to get career advice, discuss ethical and economic implication of cancer research, as well as current and future trends in biology. Cancer is the leading cause of death in western countries. Cancer Biology aims at uncovering the molecular mechanisms that cause cell transformation, understanding the biology of tumor cell growth and metastasis, as well as strategies for the treatment of cancer patients. Cancer biology thereby brings together multiple scientific disciplines, including cell- and molecular biology, biochemistry, pharmacology and various disciplines of medicine. We have recently established the 'John and Lola Grace Distinguished Cancer Lecture Series' and we have been able to attract world-leading cancer researchers to come to EPFL. All invitees have been competitively selected based on scientific excellence and impact of the research on improvement of care for cancer patients. The invitees for the next year include two Nobel Laureates (Prof. Michael Bishop and Prof. David Baltimore) and several winners of other important scientific prizes. The PhD students attending this course will meet the day before the Distinguished Cancer Lecture Series with the speaker and/or an ISREC Faculty member to get an introduction to the particular field of the lecturer and discuss 2-3 high-impact key publications of the speakers' field (2 hours). The students will then attend the lecture of the distinguished speaker (1 hour) and will afterwards have the exclusive opportunity to discuss open issues from the lecture, ethical and economical implications, as well as to get a unique insight into critical career decisions of the lecturer and get personal advice on the students' own career planning (1 hour). All the information are available on this link http://sv.epfl.ch/ISREC/grace and dates for 2016 are available on this link http://sv.epfl.ch/files/content/sites/svnew2/files/shared/ISREC/pdf/Grace-ISREC%20Lectures%20-%202016.pdf \u00a0 Note This course is open to max. 20 students. It usually starts every academic year beginning of September. Always at 5:00 in room SV2715 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Cancer Biology Assessment methods Oral presentation"}
{"courseId": "EE-490(d)", "name": "Lab in microelectronics", "description": "Study of some useful circuits mainly in telecommunication systems. Content A-D and D-A Conversion Modulation & Demodulation PLL Initiation to HF Electronics SSB Transmiter or Receiver Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Circuits et Syst\u00e8mes Electronique II Techniques HF & VHF Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose a type of circuit suiting the needsDimension the circuitOptimize a circuit in case of conflicting requirementsTranscribe results in a written report Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures. Teaching methods Practical Lab Work in team of two students Expected student activities Calculate components values Detailled Analyzis of Performances Writing a report of results Assessment methods Evaluation of the report Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MATH-341", "name": "Linear models", "description": "Regression modelling is a basic tool of statistics, because it describes how one variable may depend on another. The aim of this course is to familiarize students with the basis of regression modelling, and of some related topics. Content Properties of the Multivariate Gaussian distribution and related quadratic forms. Gaussian linear regression: likelihood, least squares, variable manipulation and transformation, interactions.Geometrical interpretation, weighted least squares; distribution theory, Gauss-Markov theorem.Analysis of variance: F-statistics; sums of squares; orthogonality; experimental design.Linear statistical inference: general linear tests and confidence regions, simultaneous inferenceModel checking and validation: residual diagnostics, outliers and leverage points.Model selection: the bias variance effect, stepwise procedures. Information-based criteria.Multicollinearity and penalised estimation: ridge regression, the LASSO, relation to model selection, bias and variance revisited, post selection inference.Departures from standard assumptions: non-linear least Gaussian regression, robust regression and M-estimation.Nonparametric regression: kernel smoothing, roughness penalties, effective degrees of freedom, projection pursuit and additive models. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Analysis, Linear Algebra, Probability, Statistics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Recognize when a linear model is appropriate to model dependenceInterpret model parameters both geometrically and in applied contextsEstimate the parameters determining a linear model from empirical observationsTest hypotheses related to the structural characteristics of a linear modelConstruct confidence bounds for model parameters and model predictionsAnalyze variation into model components and error componentsContrast competing linear models in terms of fit and parsimonyConstruct linear models to balance bias, variance and interpretabilityAssess / Evaluate the fit of a linear model to data and the validity of its assumptions.Prove basic results related to the statistical theory of linear models Teaching methods Lectures ex cathedra, exercises in class, take-home projects Assessment methods Continuous control, written exam"}
{"courseId": "ChE-411", "name": "Principles and applications of systems biology", "description": "The course introduces key concepts from systems biology and systems engineering methodologies used for the study of complex biological networks. It presents and analyzes the methodologies for the development of models of biological networks. Content The course will include the following topics: Methods and technologies for monitoring cell-wide gene expression Mathematical and computational analysis of gene expression data Methods and technologies for monitoring cell-wide protein expression Mathematical and computational analysis of protein expression data Methods and technologies for identification of protein-protein interaction Mathematical and computational analysis of protein-protein interaction data Methods and technologies for identification of DNA-protein interaction Mathematical and computational analysis of DNA-protein interaction data Genetic networks Mathematical methods for the identification of genetic regulatory networks Modeling and Simulation of gene expression networks Translation networks Modeling and Simulation of protein expression networks Methods and technologies for monitoring metabolic reaction networks Mathematical and computational analysis of metabolic reaction networks The course offers computer laboratory. \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Analysis I-III, linear algebra, probability and statistics, physical chemistry. The building of working groups will make it possible for people with partial knowledge in these fields to contribute depending on their formation. For SSV students: Dynamical Systems Theory for Engineers or \"Mathematical and Computational Models in Biology\" course, Felix Naef Important concepts to start the course For the computational exercises, MATLAB\u00ae will be used intensively. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Formulate mass balances of reaction networksSolve mass balance equations using linear programing solversAnalyze papers on modeling and analysis of biological networksAssess / Evaluate alternative methods for the study of biological networksConstruct kinetic models of biological reactions Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Summarize an article or a technical report.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingNegotiate effectively within the group. Teaching methods Teaching in classroom, paper reviews, project. Expected student activities Presentations and critical analysis of papers. Project. Assessment methods - Presentations of papers from the literature (30%) - Mid-semester and final project presentation (70%) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "COM-712", "name": "Statistical Physics for Communication and Computer Science", "description": "The course introduces the student to notions of statistical physics which have found applications in communications and computer science. We focus on graphical models with the emergence of phase transitions, and their relation to the behavior of efficient algorithms. Content 1. Models and Questions: Codes, Satisfiability, and Compressive Sensing.2. Notions of statistical physics: free energy, phase transitions, pure states.3. Exactly solvable models ' the Curie-Weiss model and Ising on a tree.4. Statistical mechanical formulation of coding, K-sat and compressed sensing.5. Marginalization, Sum-Product and Belief Propagation.6. Application to LDPC codes.7. Density evolution analysis. Maxwell construction and conjecture.8. Approximate Message Passing (AMP) for compressed sensing.9. State evolution analysis of AMP.10. Random K-sat: Unit Clause Propagation and Wormald's method.11. Belief Propagation guided decimation for K-sat.12. Variational formulation of Belief Propagation: the Bethe free energy.13. The cavity method. Dynamical, condensation and sat-unsat phase transitions.14. The phase diagram of K-sat. Survey Propagation guided decimation. Keywords Statistical physics, belief propagation, Bethe free energy, mean field method, coding, K-SAT, factor graph, cavity method, Ising model. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Probability, calculus;"}
{"courseId": "MGT-403", "name": "Economics of innovation in the biomedical industry", "description": "This course uses the basics of microeconomic theory to address and develop the main economic issues about innovation in the biomedical sector (competition, monopoly and price formation, productivity crisis, knowledge access, neglected diseases, geography of innovation) Content The course alternates between the basic principles of microeconomics (consumer theory, production theory, State interventions on the markets, imperfect competition, public goods) and the economic fundamentals of innovation in the pharma/biomedical sector (price formation, intellectual property rights, etc..) Keywords Microeconomics, externality, public good, intellectual property right, imperfect competition, price formation Learning Prerequisites Required courses no Recommended courses no Important concepts to start the course no Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Apply some elementary results of applied micro-economics for addressing innovation issues in the biomedical sectorUnderstand the role of innovation and patent in competitionUnderstand the role of competition on price formationKnow the strengths and weaknesses of national systems of innovation (US case)Develop your own thinking about the potential reasons for the productivity crisisAnalyze optimal prices at global scaleIdentify the various methods to produce optimal pricesAssess / Evaluate various mechanisms that allow the development of drugs for non-profitable marketsPredict the evolution of the geography of innovation Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods formal lectures; exercises (problem sets in microeconomics); discussions and debates Expected student activities Homeworks, final exam preparation Assessment methods two homeworks (problem sets in microeconomics) during the semester and one final exam Resources Bibliography Provided during the course Notes/Handbook no Websites http://non Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch Videos http://non"}
{"courseId": "ChE-204", "name": "Introduction to transport phenomena", "description": "This course aims at understanding the basic equations behind macroscopic and microscopic transport phenomena (mass, heat and momentum). Content Conservation of energy, heat and momentum Macroscopic balances and advective transport Bernoulli's equation Equations and parameters for microscopic transport: mass transport (Fick's law), heat transport (Fourier's law) and momentum transport (Newton's law) Analogy between the three types of transfer Introduction to non-dimensional quantities Combined macroscopic and microscopic transfer applications (e.g. pipe flow with friction loss), heat exchangers. Keywords macroscopic balances, transport phenomena, flux equation Learning Prerequisites Required courses Introduction to chemical engineering Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Identify heat transfer, mass transfer and momentum phenomena in lab, industrial and daily environment which are relevant both for chemists and chemical engineersIdentify quantities and subjects used in transport phenomenaDescribe transport phenomena at the macroscopic and at the molecular levelRecognize the similarities between the three transport phenomenaAnalyze problems involving transfer phenomenaUse balance to solve problemsJustify your approach to problem solving Teaching methods Lectures with exercises Expected student activities solution of exercises Assessment methods Two written tests during the semester"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-627", "name": "Magnetic and semiconducting nanostructures", "description": "Introduce students to the magnetic and electronic properties of nanostructures Content 1) Epitaxial growth of metallic 2D nanostructures (2h): Cluster nucleation and aggregation: the importance of kinetics Controlling shape and composition of 2D clusters grown by self assembly methods 2) Magnetism at the nanoscale (4h): Orbital and spin magnetic moment: from single atoms to 3D clusters Surface supported nanostructures: the effect of the supporting substrate on the cluster magnetic properties Superparamagnetic limit in magnetic data storage 3) Electronics vs. spintronics (8h): 2D electron gas at heterogeneous semiconductor interfaces Single electron transistor A new 2D material: the electronic properties of graphene Spin transport: spin valve, GMR and TMR Observing the magnetism of a single atom with Scanning tunnelling microscope 4) Semiconductor Materials for Photonics (6h) Introduction Applications: semiconductor nanostructures are everywhere Physical properties of semiconductors 5) Electronic Properties of quantum dots (8h) Quantum confinement effects (from 2D to 0D) Electronic states: excitonic complexes (excitons, biexcitons, trions), dipole moment (Stark effect) Exciton-phonon interactions (temperature dependent exciton linewidth), phonon wings, polaron complexes Light-matter interaction in quantum dots\u00a0 (Purcell effect and strong-light-matter coupling)"}
{"courseId": "ME-705", "name": "Experimental Geomechanics", "description": "The aim of the course is to provide the students with a detailed description of the modern experimental techniques for testing geomaterials. Techniques and apparatuses are presented to test materials under a variety of situations, including non-isothermal and partially-saturated conditions"}
{"courseId": "HUM-403(b)", "name": "Experimental cognitive psychology II", "description": "The media frequently report on trendy studies that have been conducted in experimental cognitive psychology, and which inform the public on \"human functioning\". This course aims at teaching students basic skills and requirements to perform, understand and comprehend such studies. Content See the full description of the course in the Introduction to project of the fall semester (HUM-403a). Learning Prerequisites Required courses Experimental cognitive psychology I (HUM-403a) in the fall semester. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Details see HUM-403(a) Expected student activities Details see HUM-403(a) Assessment methods Details see HUM-403(a)"}
{"courseId": "CH-442", "name": "Photochemistry I", "description": "This course presents the theoretical bases of electronic spectroscopy and molecular photophysics. The principles of the reactivity of excited states of molecules and solids under irradiation are detailled. The main classes of industrial and natural photochemical processes are finally described. Content 1. FundamentalsIntroduction - Light absorption and reflection - Radiation and molecular orbitals - Photonics of solid materials.\u00a02. Photophysical processesExcited states deactivation pathways - Kinetics of radiative and nonradiative processes - Excimers and exciplexes - Intermolecular electronic energy transfer - Photosensitization.\u00a03. Photochemical reactionsPhotodissociation - Multiphoton processes - Photoinduced elec-tron transfer - Pericyclic concerted reactions.\u00a04. Organic synthetic reactionsReactions of ethenes and aromatic compounds - Photo-chemical reactions of the carbonyl chromophore - Photo-oxygenation (singlet oxygen, superoxide anion).\u00a05. Polymer and pigments photochemistryPhotopolymerization and cross-linking - Photodegradation and stabilization of polymers and pigments.\u00a06. Natural photochemical processesLight-induced atmospheric reactions - Natural photosynthesis - Mechanisms of vision. Keywords Electronic spectroscopy, Molecular photophysics, Photoinduced electron transfer, Organic photochemistry, Singlet oxygen, Polymer photochemistry, Natural photochemical processes Learning Prerequisites Required courses Quantum mechanics and molecular spectroscopy Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Formulate the macroscopic and quantum laws of the absorption of light by molecules and solidsDescribe the various deactivation processes of molecular excited statesCharacterize the kinetics of deactivation processes and their role in the photochemical reactivityQuote the various types of photochemical reactionsExplain the basic principles of the thermodynamics and kinetics of photoinduced electron transferDescribe the photochemical reactivity of ethenes and carbonyl compoundsDiscuss the properties and reactivity of singlet oxygen and ways to prepare itExpress the principles of photopolymerization and polymer photodegradation and stabilizationRepresent the mechanisms of natural photochemical processes"}
{"courseId": "BIO-447", "name": "Stem cell biology and technology", "description": "This course introduces the fundamentals of stem cell biology, with a particular focus on the role of stem cells during development, tissue homeostasis/regeneration and disease. Content Embryonic stem cells, adult stem cells including hemaotopoietic, skin, intestine, neuronal and cancer stem cells. Concepts of nuclear reprogramming, cloning, and molecular basis of self-renewal.Stem cells and therapy, emerging concept in stem cell bioengineering. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Define key molecular and cellular principles of pluripotent stem cell biology (i.e. embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem cells).Develop a molecular understanding of nuclear reprogramming and cloning.Compare between different types of stem cells, their function and characterization.Define key molecular and cellular principles of the biology of several adult stem cell types including hematopoietic, skin, intestine and neural stem cells as well as cancer stem cells.Develop a firm conceptual understanding of key stem cell fate choices including self-renewal and differentiation/commitment as well as stem cell plasticity.Develop a molecular understanding of extrinsic (niche) regulation of stem cell fate.List key components of stem cell niches and their role in regulating stem cell fate.Recall selected bioengineering tools for use in stem cell biology as well as translational aspects of stem cell biology. Transversal skills Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingAccess and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Lectures and exercices Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "MSE-462", "name": "Powder technology", "description": "Most materials e.g. ceramics, metals, polymers or concrete pass during their processing one or more steps in powders. This course discusses and presents the science & technology of important powder processing steps like compaction, dispersion, sintering and novel densification technologies. Content \u00a0 Theoretical and empirical models for powder packing and compaction including disctete element modelling (DEM) (examples for ceramics and metals) Particle- particle interactions (colloidal chemistry, DLVO theory, non-DLVO forces , polymer adsorption, colloidal stability assessment). Examples from cement and concrete, landslides, ceramic powder granulation, paper coating. Introduction to atomistic modelling - with examples from grain boundary segregation of dopants in ceramics, polmyer adsorption and cyrstal growth Sintering mechanisms (metal, ceramics, influence of the microstructure, simulation) Novel technologies (includes rapid prototyping) The support material for the course are copies of the slides used to present the course along with a few key text books and review articles - which the students are encouraged to use to supplement the documents provided. \u00a0 Keywords powder technology, sintering, compaction, modelling, cement, ceramics, metals, colloidal dispersion Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Ceramics, Ceramic processing, material science Important concepts to start the course microstructure property relationships Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate the use of different modelling methods in powder technologyModel the stability of a colloidal dispersionDescribe the different sintering methods used in powder technologyExplain the limitations of classical DLVO theoryGive an example in detail of the importance of powder characteristics in an everyday example of the application of powder technologyDiscuss powder compaction in detail Teaching methods lectures Assessment methods Oral exam Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No"}
{"courseId": "FIN-504", "name": "Credit risk", "description": "The course covers credit risk models as well as institutional features of credit derivative markets. The course covers single-name credit risk, as well as models of credit correlation and portfolio credit risk. The recent crisis and the current regulatory changes will also be discussed. Content Introduction to credit markets Scoring models Structural models Reduced-form models Empirical determinants of credit spreads Credit Default Swaps (CDS) Collateralized Debt Obligations (CDO) Copulas, Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA) Measuring sovereign default risk Keywords Credit risk, bankruptcy, ratings, securitization, CDS, CDO, CVA, Structural models, Reduced form models, Copula. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Derivatives Econometrics Introduction to finance Investments Stochastic calculus I Stochastic calculus II Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Derive the Merton modelDifferentiate between structural and reduced-form modelsModel single name and portfolio default riskExplain the structure of Collateralized Debt Obligations (CDO)Describe three different reduced-form recovery modelsAssess / Evaluate Credit Default Swaps (CDS)Explain the Credit Spread PuzzleImplement the Gaussian Copula ModelAssess / Evaluate Junior, Mezzanine and Senior Tranche pricesDistinguish three extensions of the Merton model Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsCommunicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Lectures, homework Assessment methods 25% Midterm 25% Homework Assignment 50% Final Exam"}
{"courseId": "MATH-469", "name": "Parabolic and hyperbolic PDE's", "description": "1. PARABOLIC EQUATIONS: Existence and uniqueness of weak-solutions, Maximum principle. Fundamental solutions. Infinite speed of propagation. 2. HYPERBOLIC EQUATIONS: Existence and uniqueness of weak solutions. Fundamental solutions. Finite speed of propagation. Content I. PARABOLIC EQUATIONS 1. Existence and uniqueness of weak-solutions. 2. Maximum principle. 3. Fundamental solutions. Infinite speed of propagation. 4. Separation of variables for a rectangle domains. The asymptotic behaviour of solutions as time goes to infinity. \u00a0 II. HYPERBOLIC EQUATIONS 1. One dimensional investigation. 2. Existence and uniqueness of weak solutions. 3. Fundamental solutions. 4. Finite speed of propagation. 5. Separation of variables for a rectangle domains. The asymptotic behaviour of solutions as time goes to infinity. \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses MATH-407: Elliptic PDE's."}
{"courseId": "MSE-709", "name": "Powder Characterisation and Dispersion", "description": "Introduction to some basic methods used for powder characterisation, particle size measurement and a brief introduction to powder dispersion and suspension characterisation. Discussion of the fundamental theory behind the methods and their limitations. Real world examples. Content \u00a0 Particle size measurement Crystallite size - X-ray diffraction Image analysis Surface area and porosity Particle dispersion and suspension characterisation Milling of powders \u00a0 Note Maximum 16 participantsOnline registration are not allowed. Please contact CCMX (see below) Keywords nanopowders, particle size, dispersion, aggregation, colloidal stability, size reduction Learning Prerequisites Required courses basic scientific background Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate Different particle size measurement methodsChoose an appropriate method for particle size measurementAssess / Evaluate colloidal stability of a suspensionIdentify methods for powder characterisationChoose an appropriate method for particle size reduction ( milling) Teaching methods Mixture of power point slide rpesentations with practical demonstrations in the laboratory. Assessment methods Written test at the end of the course."}
{"courseId": "EE-616", "name": "IEEE Sensors Council Summer School on Nano-Bio-Sensing", "description": "The Summer School is on bioelectronic sensors. It provides a broaden knowledge in the new emerging areas of Bio/CMOS interfaces for distributed diagnostics. Developed skills about understanding and designing complex heterogeneous systems that integrate electronics, nanotechnology, and biotechnology. Content This Summer School is multidisciplinary in nature, comprising of an eclectic mix of insightful invited lectures, keynote talks, and poster sessions in the area of electronic sensors for health. Special focus of the school is on the new emerging field of distributed diagnostic, which requires special design of new wearable sensors as well as special design of the related electronics and interfaces to operate with these new sensors. This School enables students and researchers interested in the field of modern sensors for health to broaden their knowledge in new emerging areas of research at the interface of life sciences and engineering. The five-day program of this school is highly multidisciplinary and covers a range of topics including but not limited to: Nanostructured devices and interfaces, Biosensor devices and interfaces', Implantable electronics', Telemetry sensory systems, Wireless and energy harvesting / scavenging, Electronics for brain sensing and brain machine interfaces, Innovative circuits for medical applications'. Please, see the detailed program @ http://ieee-sc-summer-school.org/program. \u00a0 Top worldwide leaders in the field will also provide some keynote lectures: Ali Khademhosseini (Harvard Medical School), Mark Phelps (from industry, Medtronic ' US), Georges Gielen (Leuven University). \u00a0 Other lecturers are indeed : Christian Enz (EPFL), Sandro Carrara (EPFL), David Atienza Alonso (EPFL), Maysam Ghovanloo (Gerogia Tech), Pantelis Georgiou (Imperial Collage), Marco Bianchessi (from industry, ST Microelectronics), Till Bachmann (University of Edinbourg), Roland Thewes (Technical University of Berlin), Danilo Demarchi (Politecnico di Torino). \u00a0 Topics of the lectures are: Wearable Sensors, Implantable ECG Devices, Smart Embedded Systems, Sensing Systems for Teragnostics, Implantable Devices for the Brain, CMOS Interfaces for Neurons, Bio/CMOS Interfaces for Metabolism, Analog Design for Biosensing, CMOS Design for DNA, Lab-On-a-Chip, Organs-on-Chip, Bio-Inspired Electronics.. Keywords Nanostructures, devices and interfaces, Biosensor, Implantable electronics, Telemetry sensory systems, Wireless and energy harvesting / scavenging, Electronics for brain. Learning Prerequisites Required courses None. Recommended courses Analog design, bioelectronics, nanoelectronics, biosensors, nanotechnology. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design Most-Advanced Circuits and Systems for Biomedical Sensing by using more advanced nano and biomaterials integrated with electronics."}
{"courseId": "ChE-601(b)", "name": "Leading research in Chemical Engineering (b)", "description": "Lectures from leading members in Chemical Engineering on: Catalysis, nanotechnology, material synthesis, process engineering, separations, energy, green chemistry, biotechnology, biocatalysis, systems biology and polymer systems Content Concepts covered by external lecturers who are leading experts in the field of chemical engineering will include experimental and computational techniques in the fields of: Catalysis Photovoltaics and photocatalysis Solar fuels CO2 capture and sequestration Systems biology Metabolic engineering Synthetic biology Surface science Nanotechnology Materials synthesis Polymer systems Learning outcomes:To have a better grasp\u00a0 of the leading research being done in the field of chemical engineering and understand the level of research done by leaders in the field. Note Next session: Spring and Fall semester (starting Spring 2017) Enrolment: edch@epfl.ch Keywords Chemical engineering,catalysis, nanotechnology, material synthesis, process engineering, separations, energy, green chemistry, biotechnology, biocatalysis, systems biology and polymers systems Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course MA2 level"}
{"courseId": "ME-571", "name": "Numerical methods in heat transfer", "description": "This course covers the basic aspects of the numerical discretization and solution of the fluid flow and heat transfer equations within the finite volumes framework. Emphasis is on developing a in-house solver and on utilizing opensource CFD tools for more complex flow and heat transfer problems Content This course has a very practical approach. Participants will learn the foundations of the numerical discretization based on the finite volumes method by implementing a simplified solver in Matlab to solve simple 1D and 2D fluid flow and heat transfer problems. Afterwards, participants will learn how to setup and solve flow and heat transfer problems in more complex geometries\u00a0by means of opensource CFD tools (OpenFOAM and Paraview). Review of Navier-Stokes and heat conduction/convection equations Finite volume method Steady and unsteady 1D and 2D heat conduction (Matlab, OpenFOAM) Direct and iterative methods for the solution of the system of linear equations Grid convergence analysis Heat conduction/convection problems Solution of flow field in 1D, staggered grids, pressure-velocity coupling (Matlab) Laminar flow field and heat transfer in 2D and 3D (OpenFOAM) Visualization and post-processing (Paraview) Keywords Numerical simulation, finite volumes method, fluid mechanics, heat transfer Learning Prerequisites Required courses Incompressible fluid mechanics (ME-344) Heat and mass transfer (ME-341) Recommended courses Discretization methods in fluids (ME-371) Numerical analysis (MATH-251) Important concepts to start the course Explain and apply the concepts of mass, energy, and momentum balance, E1 Explain and apply the concepts of heat and mass transfer, E3 Define, describe and apply the basic flow equations, such as the Navier-Stokes equations, AH17 Describe flow in simple geometries, such as over a flat plate, in a tube, or around a sphere or airfoil, AH11 Understand the basics of computer programming; develop a (simple) structures software using a programming language / environment such as C, Fortran or Matlab, AH40 Analyse numerical solutions and identify any inconsistencies with respect to physical reality; understand and apply the concepts of verification and validation, AH29 Describe different methods used to discretize differential equations, such as finite differences, finite elements, finite volumes, lattice Boltzmann, SPH, AH30 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Identify the crucial aspects present in a real flow in order to propose an appropriate modelling, AH10State the conserved quantities in a given flow and link them to a physical-mathematical description, AH16Identify and apply the different steps in a numerical simulation (e.g. geometry and mesh generation, computation, post-processing) and integrate all the essential basic concepts in a numerical flow simulation, AH23Assess / Evaluate numerical accuracy as a function of the choice of simulation parameters, AH28Analyze numerical solutions and identify any inconsistencies with respect to physical reality; understand and apply the concepts of verification and validation, AH29Perform a numerical simulation with appropriate software; understand the limits of each software in terms of its application domain and accuracy of the results obtained, AH41 Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsContinue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Lectures (about 50% of the classroom time), followed by practical exercises (remaining 50%) at the computer. Weekly assignements. Expected student activities Participation in classroom (practical exercises), assignments, final report. Assessment methods The participants have to prepare a final report describing the methodology applied to solve the assignments and the related results. The report must be handed to the teacher by the end of the course. The assessment of the student is based on the evaluation of the final report. Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "AR-401(b)", "name": "Th\u00e9orie et critique du projet MA1 (Gugger)", "description": "laba's focal theme is Urban Nature. Due to the scale and character of today's territorial expansion, the definition of the urban becomes more diffuse and complex. laba's didactic method takes students through design scales ranging from the territorial to the architectural in a year long course. Content The Middle East was the birthplace of the Neolithic Revolution, the founding agricultural act that came to humanize and domesticate the planet. Bridging between Africa and Eurasia and pervaded by large rivers and marshlands, it contained a comparatively moist and fertile land. While climate changes during the Ice Age led to repeated extinction events, this region retained a greater amount of biodiversity than either Europe or North Africa, making it a crucial link in the distribution of Old World flora and fauna, including the spread of humanity. It is considered the Cradle of Civilization because it saw some of the very first developments in human social and technological inventions such as cities, class-based societies, monumental architecture, writing, the wheel, and irrigation. It was home to the eight Neolithic founder crops and four species of domesticated animals (cows, goats, sheep, and pigs). Aslo known as the Fertile Crescent, this region saw the onset of the human domination of nature and the birth of a long history of pastoral aesthetics. laba Studio 2016/17 will focus on Israel and the role played by agriculture in: 1) territorial appropriation and domestication; 2) structuring the development of urbanization; 3) creating a national homeland narrative; and 4) changing the climate. We will look into the three major types of Israeli agricultural development: the vernacular Palestinian/Bedouin, the socialist utopian Kibbutz/ Moshav, and the high-tech desert farming.The studio will be carried out in collaboration with Landbasics, a landscape architecture Master studio at the Technion headed by Prof. Matanya Sack. \u00a0 Keywords Israel, agriculture, arcadia, utopia, colonialism, settlement, water, food. Learning Prerequisites Required courses UE U: Cartography (Ma\u00e7\u00e3es e Costa) Architecture et construction de la ville I (Gilot). Recommended courses UE J: Territoire et Paysage (Cogato Lanza, Pattaroni, Barcelloni Corte, Cavallieri) UE K: Architecture et durabilit\u00e9: \u00e9tudes de performance (Andersen, Rey, K\u00e4mpfen, Bolomey) UE N :\u00a0 Art and architecture: constructing the view II (Schaerer) Architecture et construction de la ville II (Gilot) Economie spatiale et r\u00e9gionale (Dessemontet) Sciences de la ville (Tursic/L\u00e9vy) Urbanisme et territoires (Ruzicka). Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Conduct cooperative case studies to better understand urban conditionsDesign architecture and urbansim in an interdisciplinary mannerPropose a strategic development plan, a Territorial Constitution, for a larger territory. Transversal skills Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Collect data.Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods Group work of five students. Students first take the role of specialists in a research field (namely landscape, settlement, infrastructure, agriculture, knowledge). They later go on to switch teams and produce a territorial constitution. Lectures by external lecturers who are experts in the subjects. Intermediate and final reviews with guest critics. Expected student activities The studio is located in Basel. You find more detailed information on our teaching methododology and what we expect from our students by visiting our website < laba.epfl.ch > Assessment methods Each review (both intermediate and final) will be assessed by the laba staff, on most occasions with the participation of an appointed guest jury. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Bibliography attached to the course booklet. Notes/Handbook Each student will receive a course booklet. Websites http://laba.epfl.chhttp://www.s--r.co/landbasics.html"}
{"courseId": "EE-530", "name": "Test of VLSI systems", "description": "Test of VLSI Systems covers theoretical knowledge related to the major algorithms used in VLSI test, and design for test techniques. Basic knowledge related to computer-aided design for test techniques, and their integration into a design-flow are presented. Content This course covers the analysis and implementation of test techniques for digital VLSI. Regular class lectures form the core of the course.Introduction to test theoryIntroductory topics cover the role of testing, automatic test equipment and an overview of the economics of test.Test methodsIn a second part, fault modeling and test methods are studied. The major topics that will be considered are related to fault simulation, automatic test-pattern generation (significant combinational and sequential ATPG algorithms), measures of testability and miscellaneous test methods. Industry popular models and algorithms are presented and exercised. Design for testabilityA third part sets the focus on design for test (DFT) techniques. Tackled topics include scan design, built-in-self-testing (BIST - LFSR and signatures) and the Boundary-Scan standard (JTAG). Testing of memory circuits is also presented. Aside from theoretical lectures, a number of course modules are devoted to in-class guided exercise sessions, and hand-on computer laboratory sessions, which take place along the semester and complement with a practical-oriented presentation of the topics. Keywords VLSI systems test, integrated circuits test, D-algorithm, design for test Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basics of VLSI, digital systems Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Elaborate an integrated circuit test strategyAnalyze the needs in test of a VLSI systemDevelop blocs enabling integrated circuit testAssess / Evaluate necessity to carry out test Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods Ex cathedra\u00a0class lectures, exercises\u00a0and practical exercises Expected student activities Attend class lectures, solve exercises, attend and solve practical laboratory exercises using professional software Assessment methods Written, with a mandatory continuous control written midterm and laboratory sessions Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Essentials of Electronic Testing / Bushnell Notes/Handbook Lecture notes M. Bushnell, V. D. Agrawal, Essentials of Electronic Testing, Springer, 2000 Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=293"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-520", "name": "Laser microprocessing", "description": "The physical principles of laser light materials interactions are introduced with a large number of industrial application examples. Materials processing lasers are developing further and further, the lecture presents the physical limitations of the processes. Content 1. Basics of laser processing Lasers for machining, Optics - beam steering systems, beam quality; Optical properties of materials, Heat equation, Applications - and examples: Laser induced chemical reactions at surfaces for marking applications, laser bending, hole drilling, laser cutting, laser induced ablation, gnerative processes Keywords laser, efficiency, beam quality, spot size, laser pulse duration, heat equation, losses, machining, marking, bending, drilling, cutting, ablation, generative processing, selective laser sintering, selective laser melting Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Decide which laser to use for which taskInterpret the result of a laser processed sampleOptimize a virtual laser process Expected student activities participate actively in the lecture carry out exercises"}
{"courseId": "AR-416", "name": "UE N : Art et architecture: constructing the view II", "description": "Key competence for architects is the ability to represent ideas and communicate a project's aims coherently. Therefore, the UE-N focuses on experimenting with artistic techniques for interpreting reality and transmitting ideas. Content Speculation & Artifact Perception, inspiration and imagination serve as essential cornerstones and starting points in every creative activity in design and architecture. We are nowadays experiencing profound changes and will be confronted in future with even more fundamental upheavals in the areas of technology, society and ecology. There will be no easy answers or tried and tested solutions to many of the challenges to be faced. Creativity, inventiveness und mental agility will be in high demand especially among the current and future generations of students and trainees. Creativity is nurtured by a mentally agile, playful, sometimes near naive approach. This mental act, not always logical, mostly driven by intuition, is also of paramount importance for our continued existence because ' in an environment characterized by rationally operating computers and machines ' it is this non-rational and elusive tactic that will offer and secure an irreplaceable place for us humans in future. The module will focus on working with experimental and visual compositional techniques. The main interest lies in the visual connecting and rearranging of what is seemingly incompatible, image constructions that have very little to do with reality, utopia in terms of content, composed however in terms of visual vocabulary mostly as photographs, thus apparently very plausible and realizable. With the 3D and rendering programme Cinema 4D, students will develop a compelling series of images, ranging from abstract two-dimensional image compositions to figurative, fictitious and speculative arrangements of objects. On their computers, and with a series of progressive exercises, participants will develop a series of unconventional image compositions. These, in a first phase, are based on the arrangement of colour, surface and basic body, and in the second phase, the compositions use found components and those drawn from 3D libraries. In this context, work examples from the genres of abstract art, still life and assemblage are used as reference. The course encourages the use of digital instruments in engaging at the very extreme limit of the interplay between reality and fiction. Keywords Experimental and visual compositional techniques, rearranging, idea and representation, the real and the imaginary, the object and its image, architectural expression, figurative digital tools, digital image techniques, photography, image montage, rendering. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Basic knowledge of techniques of image editing and 3D modelling. Laptop to work with during the course days. Cinema 4D software installed on computer. Basic knowledge of English. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Investigate and interpret the visual environment.Enhance visual faculties of perception and expression.Describe visual principles of photorealistic images.Specify the possibilities and potential afforded by digital image techniques.Simulate and reconstruct a fragment of built reality by means of digital image techniques.Formulate a personal creative process.Develop and apply conceptual pictorial approaches.Translate an imaginary vision into a realistic visual compound by means of figurative digital tools.Select and use image strategies best suited to the transmission of an architectural idea.Produce computer-generated images. Teaching methods Lectures, workshops, practical work (individual): intermediate exercises and final work, desk critiques. Expected student activities Strong interest in (digital) image processing techniques. Mandatory and attentive attendance during all of the course days. High level of personal commitment and active participation during course days. Weekly assignments. Assessment methods Continuous assessment. Intermediate exercises, desk critiques (60% of grade). Review final work (40% of grade). Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No"}
{"courseId": "FIN-700", "name": "Empirical Corporate Finance", "description": "The aim of this course is to develop research capabilities in empirical corporate finance, introduce methodologies to conduct empirical research in corporate finance, develop research ideas for term papers and dissertation topics. Content The course provides an overview of empirical methods for corporate finance research, seminal contributions in theoretical and empirical corporate finance, and recent advances in empirical corporate finance. Major topics include corporate investment decisions, capital structure, internal and external financing, financial contracting, internal corporate governance, market for corporate control, venture capital, and initial public offerings.\u00a0 Review academic literature in empirical corporate finance. Link contributions in theoretical corporate finance to empirical tests. Provide overview of reduced-form and structural approaches to empirical research in corporate finance. Present and discuss current research topics and seminal contributions. Develop novel research questions and outline future research directions. Keywords Empirical Research; Corporate Finance. Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course First class in econometrics at graduate level. Assessment methods Written exam."}
{"courseId": "MICRO-704", "name": "IC design for robustness", "description": "For over 5 decades, technology scaling has served to reduce the cost of electronic components and functionality. This course deals with the trade-off between analog and digital in the nanometer era. A number of concrete examples will be used to illustrate the possible trade-offs. Content 1. Noise Coupling in Mixed-Mode ICs: Simulation/Measurement2. Noise Coupling in Mixed-Mode ICs: Design Strategy/Hardware Example3. Reducing Substrate Crosstalk in Mixed-Mode CMOS Integrated Circuits4. Interference Effects: CMRR/PSRR5. Opamp Design Towards Max. GBW PSRR6. Noise in Analog Circuits7. Charge Injection and Clock Feedthrough8. Bus Routing and Grounding9. Delta-Sigma Modulation Techniques for Mixed-Signal Testing Applications10 Design for Testability11. Design Practices for Manufacturing Robustness12. Reliability of ICs13. MOS Transistor Modeling in Deep Submicron Note * Organized by MEAD/EPFL More informations & registration at:http://mead.ch/MEADNEW/practical-aspects-of-mixed-signal-design/ Contact: education@mead.ch Keywords Noise Coupling, Crosstalk, Robustness, Reliability Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Analog IC Design Semiconductor devices"}
{"courseId": "MGT-581", "name": "Introduction to econometrics", "description": "The course provides an introduction to econometrics. The objective is to learn how to make valid inference from economic data. It explains the main estimation methods and present methodologies to deal with endogeneity issues. Exercise sessions cover examples dealing with innovative firms. Content Refresher on descriptive statistics and hypothesis testing Least square estimator Maximum likelihood estimator Parameter interpretation and marginal effects Instrumental variable Panel data Keywords Econometrics; Statistics; Data Analysis Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Basic statistics and probability Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Recognize pitfalls and bias in data collection and econometric modelsIllustrate the concept of endogeneityCheck the validity of an econometric resultQuantify an economic relationshipDesign an appropriate regression modelInterpret coefficients of econometric regressions Transversal skills Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingUse both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsAccess and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Lectures provide the theoretical knowledge and exercise sessions illustrate theory using computer exercises. Expected student activities Attendance and participation at lectures and exercise sessions Doing a project Assessment methods Written exam: 40% Weekly individual problem sets: 30% Individual end-of-year project : 30% Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-450", "name": "Radiation protection & radiation applications", "description": "An introductory course in the basic concepts of radiation detection and interactions and energy deposition by ionizing radiation in matter, radioisotope production and its applications in medicine, industry and research. The course includes presentations, lecture notes, problem sets and seminars. Content Basics: radiation sources and interaction with matter, radioisotope production using reactors and accelerators, radiation protection and shielding. Medical applications: diagnostic tools, radiopharmaceuticals, cancer treatment methodologies such as brachytherapy, neutron capture therapy and proton therapy. Industrial applications: radiation gauges, radiochemistry, tracer techniques, radioisotope batteries, sterilization, etc. Applications in research: dating by nuclear methods, applications in environmental and life sciences, etc. \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the basic physics principles that underpin radiotherapy, e.g. types of radiation, atomic structure, etc.Explain the interaction mechanisms of ionizing radiation at keV and MeV energies with matter.Explain the principles of radiation dosimetry.Explain the principles of therapeutic radiation physics including X-rays, electron beam physics, radioactive sources, use of unsealed sources and Brachytherapy.Describe how to use radiotherapy equipment both for tumour localisation, planning and treatment.Define quality assurance and quality control, in the context of radiotherapy and the legal requirements.Explain the principles and practice of radiation protection, dose limits, screening and protection mechanisms.Explain the use of radiation in industrial and research applications."}
{"courseId": "PHYS-433", "name": "Semiconductor physics and fundamentals of electronic devices", "description": "Series of lectures encompassing the fundamentals of semiconductors and the description of the main microelectronic devices built from semiconductors going from the p-n junction to the MOSFETs, which are at the heart of the CMOS-technology with an emphasis on downscaling issues. Content 1. Electronic properties of semiconductors - Crystalline structures and energy band diagrams - Impurities and doping - Carrier statistics in equilibrium and out-of-equilibrium - Electron transport in weak and strong fields - Generation and recombination processes 2. Theory of junctions and interfaces - p-n and metal-semiconductor junctions - Oxide-semiconductor and heterojunction interfaces - Principles of bipolar transistor operation 3. Field effect devices - MESFET, MOSFET and HEMT transistors - Downscaling principles - Submicron devices Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Introduction Solid State Physics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: ArgueContextualiseSketchSynthesizeGeneralizeStructureProposeAssess / Evaluate Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods Ex cathedra with exercises Expected student activities Read the bibliographical ressources in order to fully integrate and properly use the physical concepts seen in the lectures and the exercices Be able to generalize the above-mentioned concepts to a wide variety of systems/devices Assessment methods oral exam (100%)"}
{"courseId": "ChE-413", "name": "Chemical engineering product design", "description": "Chemical product design has become more important because of major changes in the chemical industry. This course presents the basic method for chemical product design and gives direct practice to this procedure via a design project. Content Exploration of a simplified 4 step process for chemical product design. List the Needs of the product Categorize the needs as 'Essential', 'Desirable' or 'Useful' Convert vague or qualitative needs into quantitative specifications Develop a list of 20-200 Ideas that could satisfy the needs of the project Sort these ideas into 4 or 5 broad approaches. Screen the ideas to identify the top ideas in each approach using quick calculations. Select the best ideas for further development Using kinetic or thermodynamic analysis together with a selection matrix technique. Assess the risk with each of the top ideas. Preparation for manufacture Evaluate economic potential of product Write an 'executive summary' of a business plan. Students will then apply this method to a specifc product design project led by a product design coach. Keywords product design, chemical products Learning Prerequisites Required courses none Recommended courses ChE 201 ChE 202 ChE 301 ChE 302 ChE 303 ChE 306 or equivalent are recommended Important concepts to start the course Basic chemistry and chemical engineering knowledge is required (Transport, Thermodynamics, Kinetics). Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Compose a list of needs for a chemical productDevelop product needs into engineering specificationsSynthesize ideas to satisfy product specificationsFormalize a quantitative process to evaluate ideasDesign a chemical product to meet specificationsManage design projectsPresent results to project supervisor Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Negotiate effectively within the group.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Make an oral presentation.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Lectures, Exercises and course project Expected student activities Attending lectures, Completeing exercises, and doing a project Assessment methods 20% Exercises 80% Project"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-403", "name": "Computer simulation of physical systems I", "description": "The two main topics covered by this course are classical molecular dynamics and the Monte Carlo method. Content Ordinary differential equations: methods for numerical integration: multistep algorithms and implicit algorithms.\u00a0Classical molecular dynamics: Verlet algorithm, predictor-corrector algorithms, determination of macroscopic parameters, Nos\u00e9-Hoover thermostat, constraints, Ewald summations, application to Lennard-Jones liquids.\u00a0Random variables: definitions and properties, generators and distribution functions, central-limit theorem.\u00a0Random walks: binomial and Gaussian distributions, particle diffusion, Brownian motion.\u00a0Monte Carlo integration: direct sampling, importance sampling, Metropolis algorithm, errors in correlated sampling, Monte-Carlo simulations of Lennard-Jones liquids and of two-dimensional spin systems. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Statistical physics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Model a physical problem by a computer simulationInterpret experimental properties using a computer programCarry out computer simulationsSynthesize results in the form of a scientific report Assessment methods Report oral exam = 1 grade"}
{"courseId": "CH-412", "name": "Chemical biology", "description": "The class will discuss how the tools of chemistry can be utilized to address important problems in biology. Through the discussion of landmark papers in chemical biology the students will be introduced into research at the interface of chemistry and biology. Content The class will discuss how the tools of chemistry can be utilized to address important problems in biology. Through the discussion of landmark papers in chemical biology the students will be introduced into research at the interface of chemistry and biology. Keywords chemical biology, protein chemistry, chemical probes, protein engineering, chemical genetics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Characterize the main concepts in chemical biologyDesign an experiment to engineer an autofluorescent proteinDescribe how proteins can be chemically modified in live cellsDevelop an experiment to exploit unnatural amino acidsDescribe a strategy to generate allele-specific kinase inhibitorsCategorize different strategies to derivatize proteins for mechanistic studiesContrast forward and reverse chemical geneticsDevelop a strategy for determining the protein target of a bioactive molecule Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Ex cathedera and discussions Expected student activities Read papers to be discussed before the class Assessment methods 100% Oral exam Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No Others Students are welcomed to contact Kai Johnsson via email or after the class to schedule appointments"}
{"courseId": "ENG-467", "name": "Experimental design and data analysis with R", "description": "Linking together the elements of a research project. Basic principles of designing experiments and observational studies. Statistical model of Multiple regressions and Analysis of variance, as special cases of the general linear model, Data analysis with the statistical software R. Content Introduction (goal of the course, prerequisite, what is R) An example: The Jura Gradient Experiment An introduction to basic coding in R Designing experiments and observational studies (Basic Principles, Power Analysis and Number of Replications, Some Types of Experimental Designs, Some Types of Sampling Designs for Observational Studies) Statistical models (linear models, linear models with quantitative explanatory variables, linear models with categorical explanatory variables) Principles of data analysis (Hypotheses to be tested, analysis of multiple regression, analysis of ANOVA, including Model Checking) Analysing experiments (completely randomized experiment with one and two factors, complete randomized blocks, split-plot experiments) Analysing observational studies (simple random sampling, systematic sampling, stratified sampling) Special Issues (model assumptions not fulfilled, unbalanced designs, pseudo-repetitions, repeated measures, mixed effects, effect size, power of an experiment, contrasts, multivariate situations) Keywords Experimental design, sampling design, linear models, multiple regression, analysis of variance, data analysis, statistical software R. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Probability and Statistics, Prof. Victor Panaretos, Bachelor semester 2\" or another course with a similar content (statistical distributions, expected value, error types one and two, parameter estimation, testing hypotheses, statistical significance, simple linear regression, one way analysis of variance) Recommended courses Ecologie num\u00e9rique, ENV 521, Dr Vincent Jassey, Prof. Alexandre Buttler Important concepts to start the course Scientific method: from research questions to reporting, through data collection and data analysis Learning Outcomes The participants canInterpret in a coherent way the main elements of the research process: \"Research goal and questions\", \"Design of experiment and/or observational study\", \"Data collection\", \"Formulating the statistical model\", \"Hypothesis to be tested\", \"Elaborating the R Code\", \"Data analysis with R\" and \"Interpreting the results\", \"Reporting\".Design simple experiments (purely randomized experiment (one and two factors), complete randomized block experiments and split-plot experiments) and simple observational studies (simple random -, systematic and stratified sampling)Use the concept of general linear models (GLM) to formulate statistical models for studying relationships between response variables and explanatory variables (quantitative and categorical)Implement the basic concept of data analysis for developing R codes for analysing multiple regressions and simple ANOVA models.special issues like \"model assumptions not fulfilled\", \"repeated measures\", \"unbalanced designs\", \"pseudo-replications\", \"effect size\" and \"multivariate situations\" and how to handle them. Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Lectures Exercises Expected student activities attendance at the lectures completing exercises reading written material (given documents, documents on the web) Assessment methods Written exam during the examination period Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "CS-431", "name": "Introduction to natural language processing", "description": "The objective of this course is to present the main models, formalisms and algorithms necessary for the development of applications in the field of natural language information processing. The concepts introduced during the lectures will be applied during practical sessions. Content Several models and algorithms for automated textual data processing will be described: (1) morpho-lexical level: electronic lexica, spelling checkers, ...; (2) syntactic level: regular, context-free, stochastic grammars, parsing algorithms, ...; (3) semantic level: models and formalisms for the representation of meaning, ... Several application domains will be presented: Linguistic engineering, Information Retrieval, Text mining (automated knowledge extraction), Textual Data Analysis (automated document classification, visualization of textual data). Keywords Natural Language Processing; Computationnal Linguisitics; Part-of-Speech tagging; Parsing \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Compose key NLP elements to develop higher level processing chainsAssess / Evaluate NLP based systemsChoose appropriate solutions for solving typical NLP subproblems (tokenizing, tagging, parsing)Describe the typical problems and processing layers in NLPAnalyze NLP problems to decompose them in adequate independant components Teaching methods Ex cathedra ; practical work on computer Expected student activities attend lectures and practical sessions, answer quizzes. Assessment methods 4 quiz during semester 25%, final exam 75% Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No"}
{"courseId": "COM-405", "name": "Mobile networks", "description": "This course provides a detailed description of the organization and operating principles of mobile communication networks. Content Introduction to wireless networks Organization of the MAC layer Wireless Local Area Networks -\u00a0WiFi Cellular networks Mobility at the network and transport layers Security and privacy in mobile networks Keywords Communication networks, protocols, mobility Learning Prerequisites Required courses Computer\u00a0Networks Recommended courses Principles of Digital Communications Network security Important concepts to start the course Operating principles of communication protocols and layer organization. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Synthesize the way a mobile network operatesInterpret the behavior of such networksPropose evolutions to existing protocolsIdentify weaknesses, bottlenecks and vulnerabilities Teaching methods Ex cathedra lectures Weekly quizzes Exercise sessions Hands-on exercises \u00a0 Expected student activities Class participation, quizzes, homework, hands-on exercises Assessment methods Quizzes final exam Supervision Others The lecturer\u00a0will be\u00a0present at most of the exercise sessions."}
{"courseId": "HUM-417(b)", "name": "Philosophy, epistemology and history of science II", "description": "The course considers central themes in the philosophy of science, such as scientific realism and the ontology of physics. Starting from the debate between Leibniz and Newton about space and time, we move on to the transition from classical to quantum physics and the explanatory role of mathematics. Content See the full description of the course in the \"Introduction to project\" (HUM-417 a) of the fall semester. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Philosophy, epistemology and history of science I (HUM-417a)"}
{"courseId": "EE-540", "name": "Optical communications", "description": "Situate and evaluate the potentialities, limits and perspectives of optical communication systems and networks. Design and dimension of photonic communication systems and networks Content Properties and imperfections of optical transmission systems: dispersion, non linearities, chirp, mode partition, etc. Special fibers. Solitons. Coherent transmission systems: coherent sources, modulation methods, heterodyne and homodyne coherent reception; advantages and applications. Multiplexing techniques: subcarrier multiplexing (SCM), wavelength division (WDM), optical frequency and time division (OFDM, OTDM). Crosstalk problems. Topology and morphology of photonic networks: core and access network. \u00abLast mile\u00bb problem. Possibilities and limits. Planning: operation and capacity management, power budget, optical amplification, wavelength assignment. Reliability and economic aspects. Keywords Fiber optics, chromatic dispersion, wavlength division multiplexing (WDM), all-optical networks Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Telecommunication systems. Optical signal processing. Teaching methods Ex cathedra with examples and demos. Exercises in class and group discussions. Project Expected student activities Attendance at lectures.Completing exercices.Doing a project. Assessment methods Oral examination (2/3) Project (1/3) Supervision Office hours Yes"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-705", "name": "Low-voltage analog CMOS IC design", "description": "The course is covering following aspects: MOS Transistor Modeling for Low-Voltage and Low-Power Circuit Design, Noise Performance of Elementary Transistor Stages, Stability of Operational Amplifiers, Important Opamp Configurations and Distortion in Elementary Transistor Circuits. Content Day 1: - MOS Transistor Modeling for Low-Voltage and Low-Power Circuit Design - Basic Low-Power, Low-Voltage Circuit Techniques - Differential Amplifying Blocks with Positive Feedback Day 2: - Noise Performance of Elementary Transistor Stages - Stability of Operational Amplifiers - Systematic Design of Low-Power Operational Amplifiers - Important Opamp Configurations Day 3: - Important Opamp Configurations - Bandgap and Current Reference Circuits - Distortion in Elementary Transistor Circuits - Low-Power Continuous-Time Filters Day 4: - Matching of MOS Transistors in Deep-Submicron - Micropower ADCs Day 5: - Layout Considerations in Mixed-Signal Circuit Design - Ultra-Low Voltage Analog Circuit Design Note * Organized by MEAD/EPFL More informations & registration at:http://mead.ch/MEADNEW/low-power-analog-ic-design/ Contact: education@mead.ch Keywords Low-Voltage Analog, Op-Amps, Sigma-Delta Converters, Switched-Capacitor"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-708", "name": "Nano CMOS Devices & Technologies for Tera-Bit Circuits and Systems", "description": "The \"Nano CMOS Devices & Technologies for Tera-Bit Circuits and Systems\" course delivers what a CMOS engineer should really know of technology, devices and circuits. Content 1. presentation and discussion of technological, physical and circuit/system limitations of the actual CMOS (MOSFET & interconnect scaling, multicore processing, SRAM variability problems, power dissipation, etc.)2. physical understanding/simple models of these limitations - their analysis and hints on possible improvements - confrontation with actual industrial practice3. qualitative and quantitative analysis of advanced Bulk technology modules aimed at curing the actual CMOS - HK dielectrics, metal gate, spike annealing, impact on SRAM, on leakage, on power dissipation, etc. 4. analysis of nano-technologies /device architectures aimed at removing the limitations of the actual CMOS - breakthrough solutions for Tera-Bit circuits - devices down to 5-10nm - Double Gate, FDSOI - multiple core processing, design and layout solutions aiming at improvement in SRAM variability, power dissipation etc.5. Circuit implications (Inverter, Ring Oscillator) and predictions on CMOS Roadmap - what future CMOS will be able to do and what it will not. Acquisition and familiarization with MASTAR - the tool serving for conception of the ITRS CMOS Roadmaps - explanation of the examination project - Design your own CMOS Roadmap ! Keywords CMOS, Roadmap, ITRS, Tera-Bit, Low Power, Mobile, Multimedia, layout, power management, MOSFET, interconnects, fluctuations, short-channel effects (SCE), quantum effects, SRAM, variability, power dissipation, gate leakage, drain-induced barrier lowering (DIBL), mobility, H-K dielectrics, metallic gate, ultra-shallow junctions, Schottky junctions, strained Silicon, SiGe, Ge and GaAs, rotated substrates, FD SOI, Silicon On Nothing, Double Gate, FinFET devices, 10nm devices, Cross-bar, 3D integration, Beyond CMOS, Nano-technologies."}
{"courseId": "ENV-366", "name": "Quantitative methods II", "description": "Formulation, solution, and analysis of mathematical models for environmental science and engineering. Content \u00a0 Algebraic and numerical computation using software tools Formulation of process-based environmental engineering models Solution and analysis of environmental engineering models Numerical methods used in solution of environmental engineering models \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Analyse IV Numerical Analysis Important concepts to start the course An interest in applying quantitative methods to environmental problems! Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Develop mathematical models which describe environmental processes.Analyze the models for their stability and basic behavior.Apply the models to simple problems. Transversal skills Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingContinue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions. Teaching methods Ex cathedra teaching, exercises using the Matlab software packages Assessment methods 35 % mid-term exam during the semester 15 % continuous control (exercises) during the semester 50 % final written exam during exam session"}
{"courseId": "BIO-682", "name": "Trends in Metabolism & Physiology", "description": "Metabolism and physiology are two closely related topics affecting multiple organismal processes. This doctoral course will focus on the metabolic and physiological aspects of nutrient sensing and utilization in health and disease. Content This doctoral course offered during the Spring semester 2017, will be focused on the metabolic and physiological aspects of nutrient utilization in health and disease. Capitalizing on the recent LIMNA - Lausanne Integrative Metabolism and Nutrition Alliance initiative by FBM-UNIL, EPFL, CHUV and NIHS, the course will bring together PhD students and renowed speakers in the field of metabolism, nutrition, aging, and associated metabolic pathologies, to expose students to the current trends and topics in this field and improve education in the area of metabolism and nutrition.Invited speakers and/or an EPFL/CHUV/UNIL/NIHS faculty member will meet with students in ten morning sessions (3 hours) to give an overview of the field and lead a discussion of 2 selected articles in a journal club format. This is followed by a research seminar for the entire scientific community (1 hour). Besides facilitating direct contacts between PhD students and the invited speakers, this format trains students to critically evaluate scientific papers describing original research, to extract, summarize and communicate the information contained in these papers and to participate in scientific discussion. Note This course is open to max. 24 students. Keywords Metabolism (glucose, glycogen, lipid, amino acid); Biochemistry; Physiology (muscle,liver, gut, adipose); Exercise; MetabolonomicsMetabolic disorders; Obesity; Type 2 diabetes; Cancer Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Nutrition: From Molecules to Health Teaching methods understand metabolism is fundamental biological/physiological processes that control energy homeostasis at cellular and whole-body levels and deregulation of metabolic processes is linked to variety of disease such as metabolic disorders and cancer. Assessment methods Oral presentation"}
{"courseId": "EE-552", "name": "Media security", "description": "This course provides attendees with theoretical and practical issues in media security. In addition to lectures by the professor, the course includes laboratory sessions, a mini-project, and a mid-term exam. Content Media security problems:Rights protection, content integrity verification, conditional access, confidentionality, privacy, steganography and data hiding.\u00a0\u00a0Media access problems:Access control, conditional access, access over time, copyright.\u00a0Media security tools and solutions:Robust watermarking, fragile watermarking, selective encryption, monitoring, robust hashing, content identification, visual password.\u00a0\u00a0Media security standards:\u00a0Secure JPEG 2000 (JPSEC), security tools in the MPEG family of standards from MPEG-1 to MPEG-21.\u00a0Applications:Surveillance with privacy, image abd video right protection, security in digital cinema, etc. Keywords watermarking, robust hashing, privacy, conditional access, integrity verification, surveillance, visual password Learning Prerequisites Required courses Any course that covers basic concepts of data encryption or security Recommended courses Any course covering basics of image and video processing Important concepts to start the course Basic knowledge of data encryption and security Basic knowledge of image and video processing Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Reason the level of security in a multimedia systemsFormulate the level of security in multimedia systemsExplain concepts needed in multimedia systemsCreate secure multimedia systems Transversal skills Summarize an article or a technical report.Write a scientific or technical report.Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods Lectures, mini-project, laboratory sessions, mid-term exam, final exam Expected student activities Prepare and present a specific topic in media security as part of the mini-projet Perform laboratory sessions and write a report \u00a0 Assessment methods Final exam will be in oral if less than 20 students. Final exam will be written if more than 20 students. Final mark will be a weighted sum of the marks of final, and intermedia exams, as well as mini-project and laboratory sessions. \u00a0 Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes Others Students are encouraged to contact the professor at any time if they have any questions or need any clarification of any of the concepts presented during the course."}
{"courseId": "COM-516", "name": "Markov chains and algorithmic applications", "description": "The study of random walks finds many applications in computer science and communications. The goal of the course is to get familiar with the theory of random walks, and to get an overview of some applications of this theory to problems of interest in communications, computer and network science. Content Part 1: Markov chains (~6 weeks): - basic properties: irreducibility, periodicity, recurrence/transience, stationary and limiting distributions, - ergodic theorem: coupling method - detailed balance - convergence rate to the equilibrium, spectral gap, mixing times - cutoff phenomenon Part 2: Sampling (~6 weeks) - classical methods, importance and rejection sampling - Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods, Metropolis-Hastings algorithm, Glauber dynamics, Gibbs sampling - applications: function minimization, coloring problem, satisfiability problems, Ising models - coupling from the past and exact simulation Keywords random walks, stationarity, ergodic, convergence, spectral gap, mixing time, sampling, Markov chain Monte Carlo, coupling from the past Learning Prerequisites Required courses Basic probability course Basic linear algebra and calculus courses Recommended courses Stochastic Models for Communications (COM-300) Important concepts to start the course Good knowledge of probability and analysis. Having been exposed to the theory of Markov chains. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze the behaviour of a random walkAssess / Evaluate the performance of an algorithm on a graphImplement efficiently various sampling methods Teaching methods ex-cathedra course Expected student activities active participation to exercise sessions and implementation of a sampling algorithm Assessment methods midterm, mini-project, written exam Resources Bibliography Various references will be given to the students during the course, according to the topics discussed in class. Notes/Handbook Lecture notes will be provided Websites http://ipgold.epfl.ch/~leveque/Markov_Chains/"}
{"courseId": "ChE-304", "name": "Energy systems engineering", "description": "This course will provide a toolkit to students to understand and analyze sustainable energy systems. In addition, the main sustainable energy technologies will be introduced and their governing principles explained. Content \u00a0 1. Basics of energy analysis Technical aspects of energy:\u00a0 Thermodynamics of energy conversion Systems modeling 2. Global energy analysis Energy: issues, definitions and resources Energy economics 3. Sustainable energy technologies (the technologies covered will vary year to year depending on guest lecturers) Energy Storage, management and distribution Fossil energy and carbon sequestration Geothermal energy Hydropower Wind energy Solar energy Biomass conversion and bioenergy Learning Prerequisites Required courses Thermodynamics, General Chemistry Recommended courses Introduction to Chemical Engineering I and II Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze a renewable energy systemDescribe the working principles of the principle sustainable energy technologiesDescribe the main issues pertainaing to the global energy supplyAnalyze the thermodynamics of a sustainable enrgy systemPerform a simple systems analysis of a renewable energy systemAnalyze the economics of a sustinable energy system Teaching methods Course with examples, case studies and exercises"}
{"courseId": "MSE-304", "name": "Surfaces and interfaces", "description": "This lecture introduces the basic concepts used to describe the atomic or molecular structure of surfaces and interfaces and the underlying thermodynamic concepts. The influence of interfaces on the properties of materials is also discussed. Content - Crystallographic representation of surfaces, reconstruction- Epitaxial growth- Surface energy- Solid-liquid interfaces, interfacial energy, work of adhesion- Solid-solid interfaces, grain boundaries, interfacial energy- Surface energy, surface states and catalysis- Electronic properties of surfaces, work function, surface dipoles- Surface states- Effect of surfaces in bulk materials properties.\u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze a surface reconstructionAnticipate the stability of a given interfaceDecide what are the necessary thermodynamics concept to describe an interfaceAnticipate the behaviour of both media close to the interfaceInfer certain processes at the interface Teaching methods Ex cathedra et exercises Assessment methods The course is evaluated by a written midterm exam, and a written final exam, during the exam session."}
{"courseId": "CH-446", "name": "Lasers and applications in chemistry", "description": "The course first, overviews the necessary background topics in geometrical and wave optics, quantum mechanics. This follows by studying the fundamentals of lasers, particular types of lasers and their applications for spectroscopy, chemical conversion, biomedical research and applications. Content \u00a0 Brief introduction to \u00a0the light wave properties, geometrical optics, diffration and interferomety phenomena and quantum mechanics. Fundamentals of lasers, different types of modern lasers and their practical use. Laser wavelength conversion, nonlinear optics. Laser spectroscopy, laser chemistry, laser applications in biological research and in medicine. \u00a0 Keywords laser, chemistry, spectroscopy, wavelength, nonlinear, optics, peptide, polarization Learning Prerequisites Required courses Basic in physics, in statistical and quantum mechanics. \u00a0 Recommended courses Very basic in chemistry, optics, spectroscopy Important concepts to start the course Boltzmann distribution, molecular degrees of freedom, electromagnetic radiation Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze basic parts of lasersCharacterize laser radiationOperate commercial lasersCompare different types of lasersConstruct a suitable tunable laserPropose the optimal type of laser for their needFormulate basic criteria for the desired laserClassify lasers by their hazard Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods PP presentations, in-room demonstrations, solving numerical problems Expected student activities ask questions, solve problems Assessment methods Count lecture activity and work on home problems, Understanding the physical principles of the studied phenomena. Link practical construction details to fundamental principles. Knowledge of basic characteristic of lasers, Ability to use the derived expressions Aility to derive a few basic expressions \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "MATH-625(2)", "name": "Working Group in Algebraic Groups, II", "description": "The topics addressed in this course are the structure theory of reductive algebraic groups, their associated Lie algebras, the related finite groups of Lie type, and the representation theory of all of these objects. Content We start with the basic structure theory of reductive algebraic groups and proceed to study: their representations, the subgroup structure, conjugacy classes, structural results on their Lie algebras, the related finite groups of Lie type, generation problems. The working group is based on advanced textbooks and journal articles. Keywords semisimple, reductive, algebraic groups, Lie algebras"}
{"courseId": "ENG-435", "name": "Chemistry of food processes", "description": "The course will deliver basic knowledge on the principles of food processing and chemical changes occurring during food manufacturing. Specific thermal processes related to transformation of food raw materials will be described along with benefits and challenges to consider. Content Major chemical reactions taking place in food processing (Maillard reaction, lipid oxidation, interactions with polyphenols) Physico-chemical changes influencing product quality (aroma, taste, colour, texture, nutritional value) The role of water in food processing & preservation (water activity, shelf-life) Selected processes used in food preparation & manufacturing, such as- Thermal processes & inactivation- Drying & water reduction- Extrusion- Separation processes- Dispersed systems Keywords food chemistry, food processing, food technology, consumer benefits Learning Prerequisites Required courses Basic chemistry,\u00a0food chemistry Recommended courses It is recommended to also follow \"Food Biotechnology\" by Carl Erik Hansen, since the following 2 courses will alternate every second week on Friday afternoons: \"Food Biotechnology\" by Carl Erik Hansen and \"Chemistry of food processes\" by Imre Blank. It is also recommended to attend the course \"Food chemistry\"\u00a0given by\u00a0Bernhard Klein\u00a0in French. Important concepts to start the course Combine knowledge related to chemistry, biochemistry and\u00a0food technology. Interest to learn how chemistry and food processing\u00a0is applied in food manufacturing to produce safe products with added benefits. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe basic principles of food processingDescribe selected industrial food processesUnderstand chemical changes during food processingUnderstand factors governing food stabilityDescribe classical drying processes in food technologyDescribe selected classical preservation methodsDescribe how thermal processes can deliver consumer benefitsDescribe basic safety aspects in food manufacturing Teaching methods Lecture, short exercises, group or individual presentation on a specific topic. Expected student activities Attend lectures. Each student will give a 15 minutes presentation during the semester. This presentation will be given alone or as a team, depending on the number of students. A potential visit to a Nestl\u00e9 research facility will be decided during the semester. Assessment methods Written exam. Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No Others Q&A during the lectures. Short exercises during the lectures."}
{"courseId": "MICRO-420", "name": "Selected topics in advanced optics", "description": "This course explores different facets of modern optics and photonics. Content Summary of fundamental optics (ray optics, Maxwell's equations, wave optics and polarization optics) Material properties and optical constants Light scattering Optics of metals and plasmoncis Gratings, stratified media and photonic crystals Acousto-optics Electro-optics Metamaterials. Keywords Maxwell's equations, optics, photonics, polarization, material constant, dispersion, light scattering, Mie scattering, plasmonics, gratings, photonic crystals, acousto-optics, electro-optics, metamaterials, nonlinear optics Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses General knowledge of fundamental optics, e.g. courses Ing\u00e9nierie Optique I & II Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze an optics problemDevelop a model for this problemSynthesize the properties of different fundamental optical phenomenaElaborate a deep understanding of the underlying phenomenaModel an optics problem using MatlabExplore an optical parameter range using Matlab Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods Ex-cathedra and exercises on Matlab. Expected student activities Read the course material beforehand, participate actively during the lecture and during the exercises with Matlab. Go through the solution of the exercises and seek feedback when necessary. Assessment methods Oral exam."}
{"courseId": "MGT-707", "name": "Product lifecycle management - concepts methods and tools", "description": "The course \"Product Lifecycle Management - concepts methods and tools\" studies the concept and application of product lifecycle management over the whole product lifecycle. Content The main topics composing this course are the following:1. Introduction to PLM and related Emerging Technologies2. Beginning of Lifecycle (BOL) management3. Middle of Lifecycle (MOL) management4. End of Lifecycle (EOL) management5. Information modeling approaches, techniques and tools- Students work in groups on projects using modeling tools on specific industrial case studies6. Introduction to Petri net modeling and tools including Workflow nets, Coloured Time Petri Nets and Process Planning Petri Nets - Students work in groups on projects using appropriate Petri net tools on specific industrial case studies 7. Best practice of Product Embeded Information Devices (PEID) on a Closed Loop Lifecycle Management industrial case study Note The principal objective of this course is to provide and improve analytical thinking skills of engineering management of product related data and activities over the whole product lifecycle. Through this course, you will learn the in-depth understanding of lifecycle engineering and a clear recognition of PLM in terms of definition, components, and scope.This course will present concepts, scope, methods, operational issues, and tools of product lifecycle management. There will be particular emphasis on process and information modeling and decision making through productlifecycle."}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-390", "name": "Project in bioengineering and biosciences", "description": "The student will engage in a laboratory-based project in the field of life sciences or engineering. Student projects will emphasize acquisition of practical skills in experimentation and data analysis. Students will acquire skills in information literacy. Content A typical project will involve \"hands-on\" wetlab experimentation and data analysis, although theoretical and computationally-oriented projects are also possible. The projects are available on the web sites of SV laboratories or discussed directly with a potential head of lab. The students are confronted with the realization of a laboratory-based project integrating specific aspects of molecular medicine or neuroscience. This project will allow them to apply, to concrete problems, skills of domain and transversal skills acquired during their studies. The students are required to attend two mandatory information literacy modules at the beginning of the semester (2-3 hours each). The aim of these modules is to train students to search for scientific information (e.g. information and database typologies, search methodology, presentation of citation databases), to manage the information they have found (e.g. use of Zotero\u00a0- reference manager), and to (re)use the information they have found (e.g. how to cite to avoid plagiarism). \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manage an individual research projectDevelop expertise in a specific area of researchImplement appropriate technologies to address thecientific or engineering problem being studiedConduct experiments appropriate the specific problem being studiedAssess / Evaluate data obtained in wetlab and computational experimentsOptimize experimental protocols and data presentationPlan experiments to test hypotheses based on obtained results Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingDemonstrate a capacity for creativity.Collect data.Write a scientific or technical report. Expected student activities Students will focus on hands-on experimentation, which may be wetlab-based or computer-based, depending on the project. Students will read and discuss assigned papers from the original scientific literature. As part of the evaluation process, students are required to submit a written report or to give an oral presentation that summarizes and interprets their results. Workload: 8h/week during 14 weeks (spring semester) or 2-3 weeks full time (42h/week) during the summer. Assessment methods Continuous control The mode of evaluation must be clearly defined and agreed between the student and \u00a0the project mentor in advance. Typically the mode of evaluation will include a written report and /or an oral presentation prepared and delivered by the student. Supervision Others Typically, the student will be matched with a secondary mentor (this will usually be a senior PhD student or a Postdoctoral Fellow)\u00a0 who will take responsibility for the day-to-day supervision and training of the student."}
{"courseId": "MATH-428", "name": "Introduction to Algebraic geometry", "description": "Algebraic geometry is a vast and central subject in modern mathematics, lying between differential geometry and number theory. The course will give an introduction to algebraic geometry, arriving at the end to the Riemann-Roch theorem for algebraic curves with some applications. Content Quasi-projective varieties Birational equivalence Sheaves Schemes associated to quasi-projective varieties Cech cohomology Riemann-Roch theorem for curves Learning Prerequisites Required courses Linear algebra, Th\u00e9orie des groupes Anneaux et corps Rings and Modules Commutative algebra Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze basic problems in algebraic geometry of curves and solve them. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture with exercises"}
{"courseId": "BIO-504", "name": "Lab immersion academic (outside EPFL) A", "description": "The student will engage in a laboratory-based project in the field of molecular medicine, neuroscience, or bioengineering. Student projects will emphasize acquisition of practical skills in experimentation and data analysis. Content A typical project will involve \"hands-on\" wet-lab experimentation and data analysis, although theoretical and computationally-oriented projects are also possible. The students must carry out an original research project in the field of molecular medicine, neuroscience, or bioengineering. This project will allow the student to apply the domain and transversal skills acquired during her/his previous studies to concrete research problems. Remark The student must download and complete the form 'Lab immersion in academia' (http://sv.epfl.ch/masters_en; see Directives) and submit it to the SV Section (SSV). The form must be approved and signed by an EPFL supervising professor and the SSV section director. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bachelor in Life Sciences and Technology Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manage an individual research projectDevelop expertise in a specific area of researchImplement appropriate technologies to address the scientific or engineering problem being studiedConduct experiments appropriate to the specific problem being studiedAssess / Evaluate data obtained in wet-lab and computational experimentsInterpret data obtained in wet-lab and computational experimentsOptimize experimental protocols and data presentationPlan experiments to test hypotheses based on obtained results Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingDemonstrate a capacity for creativity.Write a scientific or technical report. Expected student activities Students will focus on hands-on experimentation, which may be wet-lab-based or computer-based, depending on the project. Students will read and discuss assigned papers from the original scientific literature. Expected workload: one semester full time Assessment methods Continuous control Students must produce two written reports (http://sv.epfl.ch/masters_en; see Directives /Cover sheet - master lab immersion academic) during the lab immersion outside EPFL to obtain 22 credits. The two reports should each be maximally 10-15 A4 pages in length, including illustrations, figures, and bibliography. These reports must be signed by the student and countersigned by the head of the host laboratory. The student is responsible for sending her/his written reports (in PDF format with a scan of the signature page) directly to the supervising EPFL professor, who will evaluate them on a pass-fail basis. The supervising professor must transmit the outcomes of these evaluations to the SSV (master-stv@epfl.ch) within one week of the indicated dates below. If validated by the supervising professor and the head of the host laboratory, the two reports are the basis for granting 22 credits 'equivalence'. Additionally, the head of the host laboratory must complete a confidential evaluation form (http://sv.epfl.ch/masters_en; see Directives) and send it directly to the SSV (master-stv@epfl.ch) within two weeks after the student submits the second written report. Dates for submission of the written reports: 1st report: mid-term (week 7) \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 2nd report: end of semester (week 14)\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 The second report describes the progress made towards the goals outlined in the first report, including: (1) a brief recapitulation of the scientific problem; (2) results obtained and what conclusions can be drawn; (3) whether the original research plan is being followed and what adaptations have been made, with justification; (4) timeline of research for the rest of the semester; (5) a brief paragraph of self-evaluation on the student's integration into the laboratory and progress in mastering the relevant techniques and technologies. The deadline for submission of the written reports must be respected. Failure to submit a report, or late submission, may result in a 'non-acquis' (NA), i.e., non-award of the credits corresponding to the period covered by the report. Supervision Others Typically, the student will be matched with a secondary mentor in the host laboratory (this will usually be a senior PhD student or a postdoctoral fellow), who will take responsibility for the day-to- day supervision and training of the student."}
{"courseId": "MSE-471", "name": "Biomaterials (pour MX)", "description": "The course introduces the main classes of biomaterials used in the medical field. The interactions with biological environment and the properties of implants are presented with examples in orthopaedics, dentistry and ocular fields. Introduction to regulatory aspects. Content Introduction : definition of biomaterials and biological environment. Interactions with biological environment : biocompatibility, cytotoxicity, degradation, wear and corrosion. Main classes of biomaterials and their properties (metals, polymers and ceramics/cements). Orthopaedic implants : bone physiology and implants. Dental implants : tooth physiology and implants. Ocular implants : physiology and implants. Stage of development of biomaterials. Sterilization techniques. Introduction to regulatory aspects. Keywords Biomaterials, biocompatibility, biofonctionality, implants. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Introduction to materials science Recommended courses Materials, metallurgy, polymer, ceramics. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Estimate a biomaterial in function of the applicationCompare developments of new biomaterialsDescribe the interactions with biological environmentDescribe the developement process and regulatory aspects Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Respect relevant legal guidelines and ethical codes for the profession.Collect data.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Ex cathedra and invited speakers Expected student activities Attendance at lectures. Search for information to prepare course. Assessment methods Written exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MGT-409", "name": "D. Thinking: real problems, human-focused solutions", "description": "The purpose of this course is to engage students into multidisciplinary collaboration to tackle real world problems with a human centered approach. Content By a Design Thinking approach, students are encouraged to discover through observation what is meaningful and to whom, to generate empathy with users, find a specific focus to the challenge and ideate on possible solutions. These must then be quickly prototyped, tested and iterated based on results. Students will work in different teams during the semester to solve a set of challenges; these are divided into a one-week, a three-week and a six-week project. During the course of these challenges, they will learn the different tools and exercises to generate insights, collaborative working, idea building, rapid prototyping and iterative testing. Keywords innovation, design thinking, rapid prototyping, user empathy, ideation Learning Prerequisites Required courses None Important concepts to start the course Empathy, fast failure Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Develop a new productSynthesize user needsSketch ideasAssemble prototypesConstruct prototypes Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods Case method, guest lectures, building things Expected student activities Group work, ideation / brainstorming, building prototypes, going into the field, talking with users and customers. Attendance to every session is mandatory. Expect a higher than usual workload for this course. A maximimum number of 30 students will be accepted in this course, however students are encouraged to attend the first two classes even if there are not spaces left on IS Academia. Please note that those students that have not attended since the first class will not be accepted. \u00a0 Assessment methods Prototypes and documentation for three different projects will be graded as follows: 1st project: 10% 2nd project: 30% 3rd project: 40% Class participation and preparation: 20% Supervision Others Office hours TBD, exercises"}
{"courseId": "FIN-525", "name": "Financial big data", "description": "The aim is to acquire the right set of tools to analyze financial big data. This lecture focuses on complexity-reduction methods such as clustering and statistical learning. Distributed data processing will then be used to solve case studies in R. The risks of overfitting will be emphasized Content Market Big Data: empirical stylized facts Agent Big Data: empirical analysis and modeling Core data mining and statistical learning concepts Financial introduction to random matrix theory and its applications Covariance matrix reduction techniques and large-scale porfolio optimization Some theoretical problems and many practical ones to be solved using R and dedicated third party software (e.g. Hadoop) Keywords Big Data, stylized facts,\u00a0data analytics, dimension reduction, statistical learning, portfolio optimization, data mining Learning Prerequisites Required courses Good knowledge of the probability and statistics concepts taught in the first (two) year(s) at EPFL (we won't have time to review the basics!). This includes the Central Limit Theorem and its important applications in statistics. Good aquaintance with matrices including the spectral theorem and its applications. Good programming skills (required) and a first experience with R (highly recommended). Recommended courses Advanced statistics Econometrics Modern portfolio theory Programming with R, Matlab, or Python Important concepts to start the course See above Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose appropriate methods and tools to manipulate and analyze complex financial data.Conduct a and rigorous statistical analysis leading to the identification of a large dataset relevant properties.Implement financial big data models using R and Hadoop.Implement large-scale portfolio allocation algorithms in R.Infer parameter values in a statistical sound way.Explain of big data in finance. Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Chair a meeting to achieve a particular agenda, maximising participation.Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Manage priorities.Write a scientific or technical report.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lectures (2 hours) followed by 2 hours of supervized exercices in class over a consecutive 7-week period. Expected student activities Actively participating at lectures Completing theoretical and practical exercices Completing a group project based on a real case study chosen among several options (groups of 2) Assessment methods Weekly problems 25% Group project 75% Supervision Office hours No Forum Yes Others Assistant support envisioned depending on attendance Online (Skype) hours"}
{"courseId": "EE-724", "name": "Human language technology: applications to information access", "description": "The HLT course introduces applications of human language technology focusing on accessing text information across three types of barriers: the quantity barrier (large repositories), the cross-lingual barrier, and the subjective barrier (human interactions). Content The following technologies will be studied for each barrier to information access: 1. The quantity barrier: information retrieval, web search, document classification, topic models, learning to rank, question answering, recommender systems. 2. The crosslingual barrier: machine translation (history of the field, presentation of rule-based and of statistical systems including phrase-based and tree-based ones, domain adaptation, the use of syntax and semantics), methods for text alignment, issues and metrics for MT evaluation, cross-language information retrieval. 3. The subjective barrier: sentiment analysis, subjectivity detection, analysis of human exchanges (spoken or written) for information access, search within multimedia archives. 4. Conclusion on the bases of HLT research: defining a problem, building reference data, finding features for machine learning algorithms, training the algorithms, evaluating and analyzing the performance. \u00a0 Note The course includes lectures (2h) followed by laboratory exercises (2h) using freely-available software and language resources to perform one of the tasks introduced in the course and to illustrate the properties of one or several presented algorithms. The exercises will serve as starting points for the individual projects (graded based on report and oral defense at the end of the semester), on a topic to be chosen in agreement with the lecturer. Once in the semester students will present a scientific article, and one laboratory exercise will be graded. Keywords Human language technology, language engineering, information retrieval, machine translation. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses At least one prior course in statistics, machine learning, computational linguistics, or artificial intelligence. Programming proficiency in a language such as Perl or Java. Assessment methods Project report.Oral presentation."}
{"courseId": "MICRO-402", "name": "Modeling and simulation of microsystems", "description": "Students will learn how to analyze a problem, identify the relevant parameters, build a simple model and/or a more complex discretized problem, solve it using computing power and extract the relevant parameters from the simulation. Content Part 1. 1 degree of freedom system Static deformation of a spring-mass Dynamic deformation Dynamic deformation with a non sinusoidal drive Dynamic deformation with a non-linear stiffness Part 2. Lump model & Equivalent circuit Mechanical resonator Electro-mechanical resonator Thermal conductance Part 3. Finite Element Modelling Static mechanical deformation Surface stress effects on micro-structures Thermal simulation Electrothermal simulation Electro-thermo-mechanical simulation \u00a0 Keywords Simulation, Modelling, Finite element, Runge-Kutta, Mesh, Convergence, Multi-physics \u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Basic electronics and physics \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course \u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose the appropriate approach to modelling a simple deviceIdentify relevant parameters in a systemDesign the model describing the systemInterpret predictions and results from the modelChoose the appropriate boundary conditionsChoose the appropriate mesh size with respects to the physics of the problem Teaching methods Ex-Cathedra Exercises on a computer using Matlab, QUCS and a FEM software Project work in small groups \u00a0 Expected student activities \u00a0 \u00a0 Assessment methods Oral exam - 50% Project - 50% \u00a0 \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "CH-622", "name": "Synergism between Art of Total Synthesis and High Level Strategic Design (MOM)", "description": "Retro-synthessis, Total Synthesis, Atom-economy Content The following topics will be addressed:'\u00a0\u00a0 Selection of right (relevant?) targets'\u00a0\u00a0 Design of synthesis strategy'\u00a0\u00a0 Understanding the criteria for a successful synthesis'\u00a0\u00a0 Understanding the interplay between target puisuit and development of novel synthetic methodology'\u00a0\u00a0 Learning how to present and defend their own scientific project Note So called \"MOM\" course Keywords Retro-synthessis, Total Synthesis, Atom-economy Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Master EPFL or Equivalent Important concepts to start the course strong background in synthetic organic chemistry Assessment methods Oral presentation together with oral exam"}
{"courseId": "MATH-731", "name": "Topics in geometric analysis I", "description": "The subject deals with differential geometry and its relation to global analysis, partial differential equations, geometric measure theory and variational principles to name a few. Content The subject of Geometric Analysis has appeared some 60 years ago although the name is more recent. The subject deals with differential geometry and its relation to global analysis, partial differential equations, geometric measure theory and variational principles to name a few. Geometric Analysis is at force whenever strong mathematical analysis is used to solve problems in differential geometry. The Calabi conjecture, the Yamabe conjecture and most spectacular the Poincar\u00e9 conjecture all have been solved by methods from geometric analysis. The goal of this course is to introduce the student to the basic techniques of geometric analysis. The subject covered vary each year. Typical subjects will be: global analysis, Hodge theory, PDE's on Manifolds, advanced Riemannian geometry etc."}
{"courseId": "MSE-636(b)", "name": "Scanning electron microscopy techniques (b)", "description": "This intensive course is intended for researchers who envisage to use scanning electron microscopy techniques for their research or who want to understand how to interpret SEM images and analytical results presented in scientific publications. Content This intensive course is intended for researchers who are potential new users of scanning electron microscopes. It will provide them with a basic understanding of the instruments, optics of SEM, the imaging modes, the associated analytical techniques EDS and EBSD, related theories of image formation.\u00a0Demonstrations will be given on the microscopes.\u00a0\u00a02x Year Spring (b) and autumn (a) Keywords SEM, FIB, ESEM"}
{"courseId": "EE-490(a)", "name": "Lab in acoustics", "description": "Apply the knowledge acquired in Electroacoustics, Audio Engineering and Propagation of Acoustic Waves lectures. Content TP1: Matlab - programming of tools for acoustics and audio TP2: Analysis and synthesis of a piano note TP3: Audiometry TP4: Auditory localization TP5: Reverberant room TP6: Absorption in impedance tube TP7: Acoustic expertise TP8: Simulation of spherical sound sources with COMSOL TP9: Simulation 1D acoustic waveguide with COMSOL TP10: Simulation of the impedance tube (TP6) with COMSOL TP11: Assessment of Thiele & Small parameters for a loudspeaker TP12: Coherent sources / interferences TP13: Measurement of sources directivity Keywords Sound synthesis 3D sound perception Room acoustics Acoustic absorption Loudspeakers Acoustc expertise Learning Prerequisites Required courses Audio Engineering or Propagation of acoustic waves Recommended courses Electroacoustics Important concepts to start the course Acoustic waves Transmission lines Physical measurement Characterization of physical systems, impulse response Signal processing, Fourier analysis Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Argue hypothesis justifying a physical observationFormulate physical explanationsSynthesize experimental resultsOrganize the work within a team of students Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles. Teaching methods 1 laboratory fiche given every week. 4 hours to perform the work described in the fiche 1 assistant providing help if required Report the work within a 15 days deadline Expected student activities Report the work Assessment methods Report correction Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "EE-519", "name": "Bioelectronics and implantable biomedical microelectronics", "description": "The course covers the fundaments of bioelectronics and integrated microelectronics for biomedical and implantable systems. Issues and trade-offs at the circuit and systems levels of invasive microelectronic systems as well as their eluding designs, methods and classical implementations are discussed Content Bioelectricity and bio-signals biopotentials, definition of selected bio-signals Electrodes types of electrodes and integrated electrodes, characteristics and impact on the recording/driving circuits, neuron-semiconductor interface, Bio-signal recording low-noise amplifiers, architectures analysis, presentation of main design issues, low-power low-noise design techniques Multichannel recording massively parallel recording techniques, examples of the cortical implants, compressed-sensing techniques Electrical stimulation integrated circuits for electrical stimulation of tissues, specific issues related to operating voltage, charge balancing, In-vitro systems techniques for integrated recording in-vitro, stimulation Neuromorphic integrated electronics usage of microelectronics to mimic neurons or higher-level functions, fundaments of microelectronic bio-inspired systems and applications in processing and vision Application examples case studies of classical implanted systems, as well as prospective systems, including cochlear implants, sight restoring retina implants, deep-brain stimulation systems, cortical recording systems (invasive), epilepsy management systems, bio-pills, multimodal systems Keywords bio-electronics, bio-medical electronics, implantable microelectronics Learning Prerequisites Required courses Electronics (fundaments, circuits and systems) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Elaborate design strategies and methodsElaborate specificationAnalyze block level requirementsDevelop blocks, modelsAssess / Evaluate alternate existing methods Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Make an oral presentation.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art. Teaching methods Ex cathedra and practical exercises, seminars Expected student activities Attend class lectures, solve exercises, study professional litterature and prepare a short report and short seminar on a selected topic Assessment methods Mandatory continusous control: written midterm Mandatory continuous control: seminar and report Mandatory final written examination Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Bibliography Will be reported in class. Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=14535"}
{"courseId": "CS-323", "name": "Introduction to operating systems", "description": "Introduction to basic concepts of operating systems. Content Function and general structure of an operating system. Process management. Memory management. File systems. Virtualization and virtual machines. Keywords Operating systems Learning Prerequisites Required courses CS-206 Parallelisme and concurrency CS-207 Systems programming Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manage key components of operating system Teaching methods Lectures and exercises. Expected student activities Attendance at lectures and completing exercises. Assessment methods Midterm and final during the semester. 50% midterm, 50% final. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "ChE-600", "name": "Solar photovoltaics and energy systems", "description": "In this course a broad overview of solar energy conversion technologies will be explored. We analyze the thermodynamic limits and explore the state of the solar energy conversion industry through the comparison of competing technologies. Students critique the latest published advances. Content 1. Solar irradiation as an energy source for electricity generation.2. Thermodynamic efficiency restrictions in photochemical energy conversion3. Electronic and electrochemical materials for energy applications; relevant solid-state and physical concepts4. Structure of solar cells, p-n junctions, heterojunctions, Schottky junctions.5. Organic materials in photochemistry.6. Fundamentals of semiconductor photo-electrochemistry7. Dynamics of electron transfer and charge transport processes8. Bio-inspired molecular photovoltaics9. Dye-sensitization of wide bandgap materials10. Electrochemistry in energy conversion devices - overview11. Advanced strategies and materials for photochemical solar energy conversion\u00a0Hands-on experiments and demonstrations:\u00a0 Construction and testing of dye-sensitized solar cells Electrochemical characterization of photovoltaic devices Time-resolved laser spectroscopy (dynamics of competing electron transfer processes) Note This course has been given in Spring 2016 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Dipl-Ing or M.S., including physics, chemistry or materials science"}
{"courseId": "EE-714", "name": "Nonlinear signal modeling and prediction", "description": "The literature on nonlinear signal processing has exploded, and it becomes more and more difficult to identify the most useful approaches for specific contexts. This course presents promising developments for the practical application of nonlinear signal models in various fields of engineering. Content 1. Introduction2. Summary of linear AR and ARMA modeling3. Nonlinear AR and ARMA modeling, polynomial models and their estimation4. Specific nonlinear models (threshold AR, ...)5. Neural network based modeling and prediction6. Model selection7. Chaos theory and applications8. Kernel-based approaches 9. Laboratory exercises: application of nonlinear modeling/prediction to synthetic and experimental data Keywords Signal modeling, Signal prediction, Nonlinear autoregression, Parameter estimation. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Statistical signal processing"}
{"courseId": "FIN-601", "name": "Theoretical corporate finance", "description": "The aim of this course is to expose students to important papers in the literature on corporate finance. The objective of the course is to give students a working understanding of key papers and to expose students to solution techniques to be applied in their own research. Content This course will provide a framework for understanding the determinants of corporate financing, dividend, hedging, and investment policies. It will also provide an analysis of the economic determinants of each policy, as well as the quantitative implementation of the considered policies. Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Stochastic Calculus; Asset Pricing Theory; Contract and Game Theory. Assessment methods Written exam."}
{"courseId": "BIO-482", "name": "Neurosciences II : cellular mechanisms of brain function", "description": "This lecture course focuses on the cellular mechanisms of mammalian brain function. We will describe how neurons communicate through synaptic transmission in order to process sensory information ultimately leading to motor behavior. Content The brain processes information through the concerted activity of many neurons, which communicate with each other through synapses organised in highly dynamic networks. The first goal of this course is to gain a detailed understanding of the structure and function of the fundamental building blocks of the brain, its synapses and neurons. In considering this goal, we will also examine some basic methods including cellular electrophysiology and optical imaging. This will enable the student to critically evaluate how neurons are studied. The second goal is to learn how synaptic input is integrated and processed in single neurons based on the active and passive properties of axons and dendrites. Students will assemble their knowledge of synapses and neurons into a coherent picture of neuronal network function, with specific emphasis on the interactions of excitatory glutamatergic and inhibitory GABAergic neurons, plasticity and neuromodulation. The third goal, will be to place neuronal networks in the context of how they contribute to associative learning and sensory processing ultimately leading to behavioural decisions and motor output.\u00a0 We will cover the following specific topics: Passive neuronal membrane properties; Excitability; Synaptic transmission; Glutamatergic synapses; GABAergic synapses; Dendritic integration; Synaptic plasticity; Motor control; Touch; Vision; Hearing; Smell and taste Keywords Neurons, synapses, neuronal networks, learning, sensory processing, motor control Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Establish a detailed understanding of the structure and function of the fundamental building blocks of the brain, its synapses and neurons.Discuss methods for studying brain function, including cellular electrophysiology and optical imaging.Describe how synaptic input is integrated and processed in single neurons based on the active and passive properties of axons and dendrites.Integrate cellular knowledge into an understanding of neuronal network function in the context of sensory processing. Teaching methods 3 h of lectures per week 2 h of exercises per week The lectures for the first half of the course will be online video-lectures from the BrainX MOOC \"Cellular mechanisms of brain function\" hosted at edX. These videos will be accompanied by 2 hours of exercises per week. Expected student activities Students are expected to attend the lecture and exercise sessions. Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "CS-411", "name": "Digital education & learning analytics", "description": "This course addresses the relationship between specific technological features and the learners' cognitive processes. It also covers the methods and results of empirical studies on this topic: do student actually learn due to technologies? Content Learning theories and learning processes. Instructional design: methods, patterns and principles. Orchestration graphs. On-line education. Effectiveness of learning technologies. Methods for empirical research. Learning analytics. History of learning technologies.\u00a0 Keywords learning, pedagogy, teaching, online education, MOOCs\u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Some mastery of machine learning models is recommeded. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the learning processes triggered by a technology-based activityExplain how a technology feature influences learning processesElaborate a study that measures the learning effects of a digital environmentSelect appropriately a learning technology given the target audience and the expected learning outcomesApply machine learning methods to educational traces Teaching methods The course will combine participatory lectures with a project around learning analytics \u00a0 Expected student activities The project will include several milestones to be delivered along the semester. Assessment methods Project exam 50 / 50 Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "CH-708", "name": "Frontiers in Organic Synthesis. Part II Synthesis of carbo- and hetero-cycles", "description": "See content Content Following topics will be in the focus of the course: ' Synthesis and chemistry of indole and pyrrole derivatives ' Synthesis and chemistry of 6-membered ring heterocycles: pyridine, pyrimidine, pyrazine, piperidine, pyran, ' Synthesis and chemistry of 5-membered ring heterocycles: furan, thiophene, pyrrolidine, imidazole, pyrazole, triazole, thiazole, oxazole,tetrahydrofurn, pyrrolidine, ' Synthesis and chemistry of oxiranes, aziridines, oxetanes, azetidines, b-lactames and lac-tones ' Polycyclic heteroaromatic compounds: benzofuran, purine, quinoline, isoquinoline, quina-zoline, carbazole, (General Concept of the Lecture Series: A thorough knowledge and understanding of chemical transformations is essential for the synthetic chemist. In this course series, the student will become familiar with the recent methodological developments in organic chemistry. With the tools of modern chemistry, they will be able to design new efficient, economical and environ-mentally friendly reactions and synthesis. Every student will be assigned a specific topic of research. He will be expected to make a thorough literature research on his subject, including pioneering works, state of the art and most recent developments. He will present his results in to the class and the instructor and organize a short exercise session on the topic for the class.) Part II: Synthesis of Carbo- and Hetero- Cycles: In this part of the lecture, the students will learn methods to synthesize cyclic compounds efficiently. These skills are primordial for the pharmaceutical industry, as cyclic structures are ubiquitous in biologically active compounds. When familiar with the classical ways as well as the new development in this field, the student will be able to design the synthesis of structural diverse (hetero)-cyclic compounds to access deversity-oriented libraries. ' Diels-Alder and hetero-diels-alder reactions ' [3 2] cycloadditions: Huisgen Cycloaddition, Click-Chemistry and others ' Cyclization reactions for the synthesis of polycyclic compounds Note Next session Spring 2018 (spread dates) oral exam based on the exercise sessions following the talk Keywords Heterocyclic Compounds, Medicinal Chemistry, Cyclization and Cycloaddition Reactions, Polycyclic Structur"}
{"courseId": "EE-434", "name": "Hardware systems modeling", "description": "This course addresses the main aspects of the modeling of digital and mixed-signal hardware components and systems using the VHDL and the VHDL-AMS modeling languages. Content Introduction System-on-chip (SoC) design issues. Design methodologies and design tasks. Notion of model. Modeling formalisms for digital and mixed-signal systems. Simulation and synthesis techniques. Modeling digital hardware components and systems Essential VHDL language elements and modeling concepts. VHDL synthesis subset. Modeling combinational and sequential/synchronous behaviors. Register-transfer level (RTL) modeling: modeling control (finite-state machines - FSM), modeling datapath, pipelining, generic RTL architecture (FSMD, algorithmic state machine (ASM)). From algorithm to digital hardware. Modeling analog and mixed-signal hardware components and systems Essential VHDL-AMS language elements and modeling concepts. Modeling electrical primitives, operational amplifier, filters, A/D and D/A interfaces, A/D and D/A converters. Keywords Digital hardware modeling. Analog and mixed-signal hardware modeling. VHDL. VHDL-AMS. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Circuits and systems. Logic systems. Integrated digital circuits design. Analog circuits design. Important concepts to start the course Circuit and systems theory. Combinational and sequential logic components. Analog functional blocks (operational amplifier, filter, etc.). Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe available modeling formalisms for digital and mixed-signal hardware design.Produce quality and reusable VHDL and VHDL-AMS models.Choose proper modeling techniques.Assess / Evaluate the quality of a model w.r.t. its intended use. Teaching methods Lectures with integrated exercises. Expected student activities Attending lectures. Completing exercises. Using state-of-the-art electronic design automation (EDA) tools. Assessment methods Homework exercises (20%). Final examination including a quiz and problems (80%). Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "CH-242(a)", "name": "Statistical thermodynamics", "description": "This course enables the acquisition of basic concepts in statistical thermodynamics including the Boltzmann distribution law, partition functions, ensembles, calculations of thermodynamic properties, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics, metals, semiconductors, p-n junctions and photovoltaics. Content 1. The Boltzmann distribution law Derivation, Approximation \u00a0 2. Partition function The translational, rotational, vibrational and electronic partition functions \u00a0 3. Thermodynamic functions from statistical thermodynamics U, CV, heat and work, Entropy, Helmholtz' and Gibbs' free energies, Chemical potential \u00a0 4. Ensembles The canonical ensemble, the canonical partition function, the equilibrium constant \u00a0 5. Non-ideal gas Virial coefficients, Intermolecular forces \u00a0 6. Quantum statistics Bose-Einstein statistics, Fermi-Dirac statistics, the grand canonical partition function \u00a0 7. The solid state Specific heat of crystals, Electronic energy levels and density of states in metals, Fermi level \u00a0 8. Photon gas and blackbody radiation Brief introduction 9. Semiconductors Energy levels, density of states, intrinsic semiconductors, n- and p-doping \u00a0 10. p-n junctions Equilibrium. applied bias, diode equation, photovoltaics \u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Contextualise the connection between quantum mechanics and thermodynamicsApply the molecular partition functionsDerive the vibrational and translational partition functionDerive and compute thermodynamic functions from partition functionsDescribe the different ensemblesDescribe a non-ideal gas from a statistical thermodynamic point of viewApply Fermi-Dirac and Bose-Einstein statistics to solids and photonsDescribe the electronic properties of semiconductorsDemonstrate the formation of a p-n junctionDescribe the principles of photovoltaics Teaching methods Lectures with hand outs. Exercises. Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "CS-401", "name": "Applied data analysis", "description": "This course teaches the basic techniques and practical skills required to make sense out of a variety of data, with the help of the most acclaimed software tools in the Data Science world: pandas, scikit-learn, Spark, TensorFlow, etc. Content Thanks to a new breed of software tools that allows to easily process and analyze data at scale, we are now able to extract invaluable insights from the vast amount of data generated daily. As a result, both the business and scientific world are undergoing a revolution which is fueled by one of the most sought after job profiles: the data scientist. This course covers the fundamental steps of the Data Science pipeline: Data Acquisition Variety as one of the main challenges in Big Data: structured, semi-structured, unstructured Data sources: open, public (scraping, parsing and down-sampling) Dataset fusion, filtering, slicing & dicing Data granularities and aggregations Data Wrangling Data manipulation, array programming, dataframes The many sources of data problems (and how to fix them): missing data, incorrect data, inconsistent representations Schema alignment, data reconciliation Data quality testing with crowdsourcing Data Interpretation Stats in practice (distribution fitting, statistical significance, etc.) Co-occurrence grouping (market-basket analysis) Machine learning in practice (supervised and unsupervised, feature engineering, more data vs advanced algorithms, curse of dimensionality, etc.) Text mining: vector space model, topic models, word embedding Profiling (fraud / anomaly detection) Social Network Analysis (influencers, community detection, etc.) \u00a0Data Visualization Introduction to different plot types (1, 2 and 3 variables), layout best practices, network and geographical data Visualization to diagnose data problems, scaling visualization to large datasets, visualizing uncertain data Reporting Results reporting, infographics How to publish reproducible results Anonymiziation, ethical concerns \u00a0 The students will learn the techniques during the ex-cathedra lectures, and will then get familiar with the software tools to complete the homework assignments (which will be in part executed under the supervision of the teacher and the assistants, during the lab hours). In parallel, the students will embark in a semester-long project, split in agile teams of 2-3. The outcome of such team efforts will be unified towards the end of the course, to build a project portfolio that will be made public (and available as open-source). At the end of the semester, students will also take a 3h final exam in a classroom with computers, where they will be asked to complete a data analysis pipeline (both with code and extensive comments) on a dataset they have never worked with before. Keywords data science, data analysis, data mining, machine learning \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses The student MUST have passed an introduction to databases course, OR a course in probability & statistics, OR two separate courses that include programming projects. \u00a0 Recommended courses CS-423 Distributed Information Systems CS-433 Pattern Classification and Machine Learning \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course Algorithms, object oriented programming, basic probability and statistics\u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Construct a coherent understanding of the techniques and software tools required to perform the fundamental steps of the Data Science pipelinePerform data acquisition (data formats, dataset fusion, Web scrapers, Rest APIs, Open Data, Big Data platforms, etc.)Perform data wrangling (fixing missing and incorrect data, data reconciliation, data quality assessments, etc.)Perform data interpretation (statistics, knowledge extraction, critical thinking, team discussions, ad-hoc visualizations, etc.)Perform result dissemination (reporting, visualizations, publishing reproducible results, ethical concerns, etc.) Transversal skills Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingWrite a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Physical in-class recitations and lab sessions Homework assignments Course project \u00a0 Expected student activities Students are expected to:\u00a0 Attend the lectures and lab sessions Complete a weekly homework assignment Read / watch the pertinent material before a lecture Engage during the class, and present their results in front of the other colleagues \u00a0 Assessment methods 30% continuous assessment during the semester (homework)\u00a0 30% final exam, data analysis task on a computer (3h) 40% final project, done in groups of 2-3 \u00a0 Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes Others http://ada.epfl.ch"}
{"courseId": "MSE-450", "name": "Electron microscopy: advanced methods", "description": "With this course, the student will learn advanced methods in transmission electron microscopy, especially what is the electron optical setup involved in the acquisition, and how to interpret the data. After the course, students will be able to understand and assess TEM encountered in papers. Content Electron imaging and diffraction contrasts Phase contrast Scanning TEM \u00a0EDS-, EEL-spectroscopy in TEM. Exercises and demonstrations concerning these themes. Learning Prerequisites Required courses - Electron microscopy : introduction- Basic knowledge of Solid state physics, Cristallography, Cristal defects Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose the appropriate TEM technique adapted to their problemsRecognize The TEM techniques used in a publicationInterpret TEM imagesPresent the TEM results Teaching methods Seven weeks of the course will be with MOOCS, 7 weeks with conventional format, alternating over the semestre. The weeks with MOOCS format, there will be time reserved at the microscope(s) to discuss and practice on the TEM the content of the lecture, as well as to answer student's questions. Expected student activities Follow the MOOCS *before* attending the TEM session for the 7 weeks on MOOCS format. Assessment methods Oral examination"}
{"courseId": "EE-537", "name": "Modeling of emerging electron devices", "description": "The course aims at modelling the most relevant semiconductor devices that will be used in nanoelectronics, such as multigates and junction-less transistors. Starting from the basis, we will focus on various analytical approaches in order to explain in detail how these devices work. Content Introduction. Basics of MOSFETs Alternative modeling of MOSFETs Modelling the Double Gate FET Charge based Modelling of the DG FET Quantum Confinement in DG FET The Gate All Around nanowire FET Concepts of Equivalent Parameters in MUGFET Charge based modelling of the Junction Less FET: double gate and nanowire Concept of Ballistic Transport in nanoscaled transistors Is the ballistic FET a vacuum tube ? The contact resistance in nano devices A simple picture of transport in `molecules' \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Basic knowledge on semiconductors Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Systematize a problem involving semiconductorsAnalyze a semiconductor deviceSynthesize infomation Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking Teaching methods Lectures Exercices Expected student activities Solve some basic exercices Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "BIO-464", "name": "Scientific literature analysis in cell and developmental biology", "description": "Students are lead to understand select concepts in cell and developmental biology, primarily through reading and analyzing scientific literature. Content The course aims at familiarizing students with select concepts in cell and developmental biology. Students will be introduced to several model systems and experimental approaches that have been used to address fundamental questions in these fields. This will be achieved primarily through the reading and the analysis of key scientific literature (see Teaching Methods section below for more information). Topic covered in 2016 will include most of the following: cell cycle, spindle assembly, motor proteins, intracellular trafficking, intraflagellar transport, prokaryotic asymmetric cell division, eukaryotic asymmetric cell division, early embryonic development, cell death during development, signaling during development, organizer function, somite formation. Keywords Cell biology, developmental biology, yeast, Xenopus, C. elegans, Drosophila, mouse, embryo, experimental approaches, research strategies, analyzing scientific literature Learning Prerequisites Required courses None Recommended courses None Important concepts to start the course None Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Recognize strengths and weaknesses of different experimental systemsExplain figures of a scientific paperDeduce conclusions from experimental dataDistinguish key experiments from less important onesPropose next experiments to be conducted in a scientific studyTranspose acquired knowledge to select a Masters project Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Summarize an article or a technical report.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner. Teaching methods The course is organized as follows: Thursday of each week, the teacher introduces the topic of the following week and gives typically two -but sometimes only one- scientific papers to read and analyze. The following Wednesday, students present and discuss the papers in class. Pierre G\u00f6nczy will teach most classes, with Andy Oates teaching two or three. Expected student activities In addition to attending the Thursday lectures, students are expected to thoroughly read and analyze the papers, so that they can participate actively to the Wednesday presentations and discussions. Four hours of personal study per week are expected. Assessment methods Students will be evaluated on the quality of presentations and discussions in class (1/3 of the grade), as well as on two continuous evaluations (1/3 of the grade each, one in week 7 and one in week 14). Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No Forum No Others Office hours by email appointment. \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "MATH-457", "name": "Numerical approximation of PDE's II", "description": "A priori and a posteriori error estimates of numerical methods for elliptic, parabolic and hyperbolic pdes. Adaptive algorithms. Content Elliptic pdes with finite elements:\u00a0 - Diffusion problems: a posteriori error estimates in the natural H1 norm, in the L2 norm, goal oriented, adaptive algorithms.\u00a0 - Extensions to Stokes problem, optimal control and nonlinear problems.\u00a0Parabolic pdes:\u00a0 - The heat equation: functional setting, space and time discretization, a posteriori error estimates, adaptive algorithms.\u00a0 - Extension to nonlinear problems.\u00a0Hyperbolic pdes: space discretization, a posteriori error estimates for the transport equation and the wave equation. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Analysis I and II, Numerical analysis, Introduction to the finite elements methods, Numerical approximation of partial differential equations I Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Expound the methods presented during the course and exercicesImplement these methods in specific examples Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture and exercises in the classroom"}
{"courseId": "ME-321", "name": "Control systems   TP", "description": "Provides the students with basic notions and tools for the analysis and control of dynamic systems. Shows them how to design controllers and analyze the performance of controlled systems. Content Introduction to automatic control Sampling and signal reconstruction Discrete-time systems. z-transform Closed-loop transfer functions Frequency response Stability PID control and loop shaping design Keywords Digital control, analysis and design of control systems, stability, PID control Learning Prerequisites Required courses Real analysis Complex analysis Physics Signals and systems \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course Represent a physical process as a system with its inputs, outputs and disturbances, A1 Derive the dynamic equations for the system, A2 Represent a linear system by a transfer function, A5 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze a linear dynamical system (both time and frequency responses), A4Construct and analyse a discrete-time model for a dynamic system, A7Design a PID controller, A9Design a simple controller for a dynamic system, A10Assess the stability, performance and robustness of a closed-loop system, A14Define (specifications) the adequate control performance for dynamic systems, A15Propose several control solutions, formulate the trade-offs, choose the options, A16 Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsAccess and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Lectures, written exercices, computer-based exercises and MOOC-based laboratory sessions Expected student activities Participate to lectures, exercices and laboratory sessions Homework of about 2 hours per week Assessment methods Written exam Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Others Supervised written exercise sessions Supervised MOOC laboratory sessions Supervised hands-on computer sessions Resources Bibliography R. Longchamp, Commande num\u00e9rique de syst\u00e8mes dynamiques - Cours d'automatique : Volume 1, M\u00e9thodes de base, PressesPolytechniques et Universitaires Romandes troisi\u00e8me \u00e9dition, 2010. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Commande num\u00e9rique de syst\u00e8mes dynamiques / Longchamp Notes/Handbook Slides / notes available online. Websites http://la.epfl.ch/teaching Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=13758"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-563", "name": "Project in biomedical technologies", "description": "The student applies the acquired skills to an academic or industrial project. Content The students are confronted with the realization of an engineering project integrating several aspects of biomedical technologies. This project will allow them to apply, to concrete problems, skills of domain and transversal skills acquired during their studies. This project is mandatory. It can be done in any EPFL laboratory active in biomedical research : the students should contact laboratories of interest and define a project plan with the host laboratory. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manage an individual research projectApply the comptences to a specific subjectDesign researchAssess / Evaluate the results criticallyCompose in written form in a scientific reportExpound the project in oral form for a scientific audienceDevelop the project in oral form for a scientific audiencePresent data coherently and effectively"}
{"courseId": "BIO-677", "name": "Practical - Hantschel Lab", "description": "Kinases in Leukemias and Lymphomas. The students will obtain theoretical and practical insight into the diverse roles that protein kinases have in driving different leukemias and lymphomas and how they can be targeted. Content The course will start out with a lecture and a discussion on regulation and mechanisms of de-regulation of protein kinases in cancer. Furthermore the growing role of kinase-inhibiting drugs in oncology and its associated problems that in cluded the development of resistance, will be discussed.In the practical part of the course the students will learn different methods how to assay the activity of protein kinases and how to determine the potency of different protein kinase inhibitors. Note Note that while the course is open to all first year EPFL doctoral students, priority will be given to EDMS students, given that they are mandated to take three of EDMS practical modules. Note also that doctoral students from the Hantschel laboratory cannot take this course. Access is limited to 3 students. Keywords Leukemia, kinase inhibitors, enzymatic assays. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basic biochemistry."}
{"courseId": "PHYS-324", "name": "Classical electrodynamics", "description": "The goal of this course is the study of the physical consequences of Maxwell equations. Content I Maxwell equations: the laws of electrodynamics, differential and integral form of Maxwell equations, scalar and vector potential, gauge transformations, solutions of Maxwell equations using Green functions, Newmann and Dirichlet boundary conditions, vacuum solutions and solutions in the presence of charges and currents, retarded potentials,\u00a0Li\u00e9nard-Wiechert potentials, radiation emission by moving charges. II Multipole expansion:\u00a0electrostatics, magnetostatics, and electrodynamics, dipole radiation III Special Relativity:\u00a0Maxwell equations and the birth of relativity, Galilean and Lorentz transformations, four-vectors and tensor calculus, covariant form of Maxwell equations, relativistic particle dynamics. IV Electric and magnetic field in matter:\u00a0derivation of macroscopic electrodynamic equations, continuity boundary conditions, waves in a medium, reflection and refraction of waves. \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses General physics, mechanics and mathematics\u00a0 Important concepts to start the course Differential and integral calculus. Newtonian mechanics. Electro and magnetostatics. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe Maxwell equations and its physical consequencesFormalize physical problems into mathematical equations.Solve problems analytically and/or numericallyFormulate the basic consequences of special relativitySynthesize specific electrodynamic phenomena into precise mathematical languageDescribe physical phenomena in the language of fields and particlesDerive specific consequences of Maxwell equationsExplain the meaning of each term in Maxwell equations Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions. Teaching methods Lectures and problem solving sessions. Expected student activities Attendance at lectures, problem solving. Assessment methods Written exam."}
{"courseId": "CS-433", "name": "Pattern classification and machine learning", "description": "Pattern classification occupies a central role in machine learning from data. In this course, basic principles and methods underlying machine learning will be introduced. The student will learn few basic methods and their relations to each other. Content Basic regression and classification methods: Linear regression, Ridge regression, logistic regression, and k-NN. Basic concepts: cost-functions and optimization, corss-validation and bias-variance trade-off, curse of dimensionality.\u00a0 Advanced regression and classification methods: generalized linear model, SVM and Kernel methods, Gaussian processes and Bayesian methods, Neural network and deep learning, random forest and boosting. Clustering: Mixture model, k-means, Gaussian mixture model and EM algorithm. Dimensionality reduction: PCA and matrix factorization. Time-series: Bayesian network, Kalman filters and HMM, belief propagation. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Analysis I, II, III Linear Algebra Probability and Statistics (MATH-232) Algorithms (CS-250) Recommended courses Introduction to differentiable optimization (MATH-265) Linear Models (MATH-341) Important concepts to start the course Programming in Matlab (basic skills) Basic probability and statistics (conditional and joint distribution, independence, Bayes rule, random variables, expectation, mean, median, mode,\u00a0central limit theorem) Basic linear algebra (system of linear equations and SVD) Basic multivariate calculus (derivative wrt vector and matrix) Univariate and multivariate Gaussian distribution (joint, conditional, and marginals) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Define the following basic machine learning problems: Regression, classification, clustering, dimensionality reduction, time-seriesExplain main differences between them.Describe a few important models and algorithms for them.Implement these methodsApply them to real-world problemsCompare their performacesDesign new methodsChoose for the real-world problem in handCritique themDefend themDerive the theory behind ML methods taught in the courseGeneralize them to new problems Transversal skills Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals. Teaching methods Lectures Lab sessions Projects Expected student activities Students MUST attend lectures every week and take notes during the lecture Students MUST attend lab sessions every week and write their own code Students MUST work on projects where they use the code developed during labs Students should read lecture note and complete weekly assignments Assessment methods Continuous control Final exam"}
{"courseId": "EE-465", "name": "Industrial electronics I", "description": "The course deals with the control of grid connected power electronic converters for renewable applications, covering: converter topologies, pulse width modulation, modelling, control algorithms (PID and PR), coordinate frame transformations, grid monitoring and synchronisation, etc. Content IntroductionPower electronic technologies for renewable energy generation, with emphassis on the photovoltaic applications.\u00a0Power electronic convertersRequirements, topologies, operating principles, pulse width modulation methods, space vectors, modeling and control. Grid monitoring and synchronizationSingle-phase and three-phase applications, phase locked loops, grid filters, power quality, balanced and unbalanced grid conditions. Control synthesisContinuous and discrete time systems, sampling, discretization, cascaded control loops, PID and PR regulators, coordinate frame transformations, tuning, passive and active damping. Keywords Modeling, Control, Power Electronic Converters, Power Systems Learning Prerequisites Required courses Control theory, Power Electronics, Power Systems Recommended courses EE-365 Power Electronics Important concepts to start the course Laplace Transform, Z-Transform, Power electronic converters, control synthesis Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Select appropriately power electronic converters for given applicationDerive mathematical modelsSynthesize control structures for different applicationsProve stability and dynamic performances Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Slides, Blackboard, PLECS examples, Exercises based on the modeling and simulations using PLECS Expected student activities Attendance of lectures; Completing exercises; Proactivness Assessment methods Oral exam Supervision Assistants Yes Resources Bibliography Grid Converters for Photovoltaic and Wind Power Systems Remus Teodorescu, Marco Liserre, Pedro Rodriguez,\u00a0ISBN: 978-0-470-05751-3, Wiley Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Grid converters for photovoltaic and wind power systems / Teodorescu Notes/Handbook Lectures, exercises and solutions are available on the Moodle Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=14729"}
{"courseId": "MSE-628", "name": "CCMX Advanced Course 'Advanced X-ray Diffraction Methods for Coatings: strain, defects and deformation analysis of thin films", "description": "After introducing thin film and HR-XRD characterisation methods, theory and limitations are discussed, including examples and how the film structure influences its characteristics. Protocols are presented for establishing reproducible and reliable measurements, and for interpreting their results."}
{"courseId": "CH-312", "name": "Molecular and cellular biophysic II", "description": "In this course we will discuss advanced biophysical topics using classical and current literature, building on the framework established in the course Molecular and Cellular Biophysics I. The course is held in English. Content 1 Protein folding / substates / dynamics ' molecular chaperones and protein folding in the cell ' conformational fluctuations in protein function and regulation ' natively disordered proteins 2 Protein machines ' motor proteins in trafficking ' motor proteins in DNA and chromatin transactions 3 DNA binding proteins / transcription ' protein DNA interactions ' search processes in the nucleus ' dynamics and function of the transcription machinery 4 Channels and receptors ' ion channels, receptors ' detection of physical and chemical stimuli 5 Membranes ' fusion, fission, membrane deformation ' diffusion \u00a0 Keywords protein folding, dynamics, molecular machines, DNA, transcription, receptors, membrane, diffusion, \u00a0trafficking \u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Molecular and Cellular Biophysics I Biochemistry I Chemical thermodynamics \u00a0 \u00a0 Recommended courses Biochemistry II \u00a0 \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course Protein structure, folding, function and dynamics Theoretical biophysics, thermodynamics, chemical kinetics Membranes and lipids \u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze the contribution of protein conformational fluctuations on their stability and functionImplement theoretical thermodynamic concepts to describe the relation between protein folding and molecular recognitionWork out / Determine the relation between chemical and mechanical energy as applied in protein machinesInfer transport processes in the nucleus based on models of molecular diffusionContrast different types of membrane protein receptors and their mode of functionDemonstrate how chemical energy is employed to enable vesicle trafficking and membrane fusionCritique literature articles on biophysical topicsSynthesize general biophysical concepts from current research articles Transversal skills Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Make an oral presentation.Summarize an article or a technical report. Teaching methods Ex cathedra and student presentations / discussions. \u00a0 \u00a0 Expected student activities Preparation of articles Presentations of articles from the classical and current literature Active participation to discussions \u00a0 Assessment methods Written exam \u00a0 \u00a0 Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No Others Moodle \u00a0 Resources Bibliography Literature articles / reviews \"Biophysical Chemistry\", Cantor and Schimmel, Vols 1-3 (Freeman, New York 1980) \"Molecular and Cellular Biophysics\", Meyer B. Jackson (Cambridge University Press, 2006) Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Molecular and cellular biophysics / JacksonBiophysical chemistry / Cantor"}
{"courseId": "MSE-656", "name": "CCMX Advanced Course - Instrumented Nanoindentation", "description": "This course is intended for current nanoindentation users who want to gain the experience and knowledge required to extract useful data from challenging sample materials. It is also intended for users of conventional indentation methods who wish to add this approach to their portofolio of methods. Content This course is intended for current nanoindentation users who want to gain the experience and knowledge required to extract useful data from challenging sample materials. It is also intended for users of conventional indentation methods (Vickers, Rockwell, Knoop, etc.) who are thinking of adding instrumented indentation to their portfolio of practical test techniques. The course could also be very useful to current nanoindentation users who have some prior experience but have encountered practical problems related to test parameters, sample preparation or data interpretation. \u00a0 Aim of the course\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 ' Design and perform indentation experiments suited to the sample material and its surface characteristics ' Recognize unusual material behaviours and understand how to adapt experimental parameters. ' Interpret indentation data in order to extract meaningful and valid values of mechanical properties with a high level of confidence. ' Identify potential measurement artefacts and adapt test parameters accordingly. ' Understand measurement uncertainties and how to minimize them. ' Appreciate the variation of surface mechanical properties as a function of depth or spatial distribution and understand how to focus on specific layers, phases or inclusions in a heterogeneous material. ' Ability to interpret relevant applications and case studies, such as: common coating-substrate combinations, multiphase materials, composites, surface-modified layers, and Micro Electro Mechanical Systems (MEMS) devices. ' Recognize currently applicable industrial standards and be able to adapt such test methodologies to own specific application. \u00a0 Topics ' Introduction, including basic indentation theory ' Basic experimental\u00a0 ' Advanced experimental ' Research methods\u00a0\u00a0 ' Applications of instrumented indentation ' Comparison of techniques ' Overview of industrial standards ' Testing of coatings Note Course taking place at EPFL Keywords Materals testing, indentation, basic theory and applications, comparison of techniques, industrial standards, coratings Learning Prerequisites Required courses Materials sciences, mechanical properties of materials"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-615", "name": "Electronic properties of solids and superconductivity", "description": "Introduce students to modern experimental techniques used in investigations of strongly correlated electron systems. Content Electrical transport. Magnetic measurements. Thermodynamic measurements. Spectroscopy (ESR, NMR). X-rays (diffraction, ARPES, RIXS). Neutron scattering (diffraction, inelastic, SANS). \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "BIO-608", "name": "Practical - Brisken Lab", "description": "Breast development and cancer. Learn about experimental approaches to study Breast Development and Breast Cancer. Content Introduction to the role of hormones in breast development and breast cancer.\u00a0Practical part:\u00a0 Studying mammary gland development: a) wholemounting mouse mammary glands, b)histological analysis of mouse mammary glands Hormones and breast development: Immunostaining for the progesterone receptor The importance of structure: Growing cells in 3D: Extraction of collagen from rat tails Gene transfer techniques: Discuss different viral vectors Note Note that while the course is open to all first year EPFL doctoral students, priority will be given to EDMS students, given that they are mandated to take three of EDMS practical modules. Note also that doctoral students from the Brisken laboratory cannot take this course. Access is limited to 4 students."}
{"courseId": "ENV-523", "name": "Hydrogeophysics", "description": "This course aims at providing a solid methodological foundation for understanding the principles and the applicability of geophysical techniques relevant for addressing hydrogeological and related environmental problems. The goal is to provide students with pertinent decision making capabilities. Content Surface- and borehole-based geophysical techniques suitable for the characterization of the vadose and saturated zones Keywords applied geophysics, hydrogeophysics, soil and rock physics, aquifer, vadose zone Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Basic knowledge and interest in subsurface hydrology and soil physics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / EvaluateDecideAnalyze Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Lectures, exercises, self-learning Expected student activities exercises, literature study Assessment methods 100 % continuous control: 40 % exercises during the semester 60 % written final exam at the end of the semester Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No Others Communication via moodle and informal meetings upon agreement."}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-486", "name": "Sensorimotor neuroprosthetics", "description": "Teaching objectives: history, neural control of movement, computational motor control, neurorehabilitation after CNS disorders, upper limb and hand neuroprostheses, lower limp neuroprostheses, student project. Content History: Emergence of the field of neuroprosthetics, current evolution of neuroprosthetics towards enabling systems for neurorehabilitation, entrepreneurial opportunities and challenges Neural control of movement: organization of supraspinal and spinal neuronal systems underlying the production of locomotion, reaching and grasping. Disease specific alteration of neural control processes after CNS disorders and limb amputation. Computational motor control: General principles associated with the production of movements, analysis of kinetics, kinematics, muscle synergy, ensemble cortical modulation, internal models, finger enslavement. Neurorehabilitation after CNS disorders: basic principles underlying learning and plasticity in the CNS, impact of neurorehabilitation on the recovery of sensorimotor functions, activity-dependent reorganization of neuronal circuits, practical use of neuroprosthetic systems for neurorehabilitation in animals and human. Upper limb and hand neuroprostheses: current strategies for the development of neuroprosthesis for the restoration of reaching and grasping in specific types of motor disorders such as stroke, spinal cord injury, and amputation. (1) neurocontrolled hand prostheses; (2) invasive and non-invasive neuroprostheses based on neuromuscular electrical stimulation; (3) robot-based neuroprostheses. Lower limb neuroprostheses: current strategies for the development of neuroprosthesis for the restoration of walking in severely paralyzed people. (1) neurocontrolled full body exoskeleton; (2) invasive and non-invasive electrical neuroprostheses; (3) invasive electrochemical neuroprosthesis; (4) Hybrid neuroprosthetic system. Student project: Approximately half of the course will involve a group project in which the students will conceive their own neuroprosthetic system Keywords Neuroprosthetics; grasping; reaching; locomotion; robotics; epidural electrical stimulation; FES Learning Prerequisites Required courses Only for second year master students and PhD students following the program in Neuroscience Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Differentiate the basic principles underlying the neural control of locomotion, reaching, and grasping in healthy and disabled subjectsDevelop a broad view on existing neuroprosthetic systems, and should be able to identify current limitations and challenges for future applications.Identify the conceptual and practical bases for the development of a novel neuroprosthesis (group project) Teaching methods The students will get scientific background by the two teachers, they will be involved in hands-on activities and will also have to work on scientific projects to conceive their own neuroprosthetic system"}
{"courseId": "MATH-400", "name": "Advanced analysis I", "description": "Getting access to the concept of measures and probabilities, to that of Lebesgue's integral as well as to the idea of Fourier. Content Measuring sets Integrating measurable functions Convergence theorems Fubini's theorem Normed spaces Banach spaces Keywords System of sets, fields, Lebesgu-Stieltjes measures, probabilities measures generated by monotn mappings, Lebesgue's integral, integrability and quasi-integrability, monotone convergence theorem, deminated convergence theorem, Fubini's therem, noremd Spaces, Banach spaces, Lp-spaces Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Characterize the domain of a measureConstruct measures and probability spacesExplain Lebesgue's integralCompare different notions of integralsFormulate hypotheses for the validity of results as interchanging the order of sums, integrals and limitsExplain the main concepts and propositions presented in the lectureExploit the main propositions in concrete examples Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture with exercises Expected student activities Understanding the mathematical language necessary for a deep understanding of the notions of measure and integral as well as of the notion of function spaces. Assessment methods Oral exam Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No Resources Bibliography M. Capinski, E. Kopp : Measure, Integral and probability, Springer. Y. M. Berezansky, Z. G. Sheftel, G. F. Us: Functiona Analysis (I & II), Birkh\u00e4user ISBN 3-7643-5344-9 C. Gasquet, P. Witomski: Fourier Analysis and Applications, Springer, ISBN 0-387-98485-2 W. Kammler:\u00a0A First Course in Fourier AnalysisDavid,\u00a0Online ISBN: 9780511619700 Hardback ISBN: 9780521883405 Paperback ISBN: 9780521709798 Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que A First Course in Fourier Analysis David / KammlerMeasure, Integral and probability / Capinski Fourier Analysis and Applications / Gasquet Functiona Analysis / Berezansky Notes/Handbook Lecture notes: Advanced Analysis I by Hans-J\u00f6rg Ruppen (Librairie La Fontaine) Websites http://cmspc11.epfl.ch/hjrhttps://cmspc11.epfl.ch/AFNextGen"}
{"courseId": "MSE-619", "name": "Nanofabrication with focused electron and ion beams", "description": "Nanofabrication with focused charged particle beams (SEM, FIB) and their applications such as lithography, gas assisted deposition / etching, and milling are discussed and the limitations of these processes are developed based on the acquired understanding of the interactions. Content Introduction to Scanning Electron / Ion Microscopes: SEM, Ga-FIB, He-FIB, AuSi-FIBElectron / Ion interaction with solids: concepts and simulationsAnalysis with focused electron and ion beams: EDX, EBIC, EBSD, tomographyNanofabrication with FIB and FEB: milling, deposition, etching, lithographyNovel Add-Ons for Nanomanipulation and Nanoanalysis inside electron microscopes: 4-point electrical measurements, positioning systems for nanostructures, magnetic bead detection, mechanical measurements: tensile, bending, and compressive loading of nanostructures, 3D topography with in-situ atomic force microscopy, chemical depth profiling by combined FIB-mass spectroscopy. Live demonstrations: Add-ons, SEM, Dual Beam. Note Limited to 16 students Keywords FIB, FEB, nanofabrication, integrated setups for in-situ measurements (chemical, mechanical, structural, electronical) of nanostructures and their in-situ synthesis (gas injection)"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-404", "name": "Computer simulation of physical systems II", "description": "The course treats the model of diffusion limited aggregation, density functional theory and its applications, and the solution of the Schroedinger equation by variational and diffusion Monte Carlo. Content Diffusion-limited aggregation: description of the model, fractal dimension, dielectric breakdown.\u00a0Boundary and eigenvalue problems: Numerov's integration algorithm, solution of the radial Poisson equation and of the one-dimensional Schr\u00f6dinger equation.\u00a0Density-functional theory: Hohenberg-Kohn theorem, Kohn-Sham equations, local-density approximation.\u00a0First-principles calculations: selfconsistent solutions for isolated atoms; selfconsistent solution for periodic systems, plane-wave basis sets, pseudopotentials; applications to atoms, clusters, solids, surfaces, chemical reactions.\u00a0Ab initio molecular dynamics: Car-Parrinello method and applications.\u00a0Variational Monte Carlo: solution of Schr\u00f6dinger equation through the variational Monte Carlo method, variance minimization, application to quantum systems.\u00a0Diffusion Monte Carlo: solution of Schr\u00f6dinger equation through evolution in imaginary time, Green-Function Monte Carlo method, guide function, fixed node approximation, application to quantum systems.\u00a0Minimization in multidimensions: steepest-descent and conjugate-gradient methods. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Quantum mechanics, Statistical physics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Model a physical problem by a computer simulationInterpret experimental properties using a computer programCarry out computer simulationsSynthesize results in the form of a scientific report Assessment methods Report oral exam = 1 grade"}
{"courseId": "ENG-421", "name": "Fundamentals in Systems Engineering", "description": "Introduction to systems engineering using the classical V-model. Topics include stakeholder analysis, requirements definition, concept selection, design definition and optimization, system integration and verification and validation. This class is part of the EPFL minor in Systems Engineering. Content General introduction to systems engineering using both the classical V-model and the new META approach. Topics include stakeholder analysis, requirements definition, system architecture and concept generation, trade-space exploration and concept selection, design definition and optimization, system integration and interface management, system safety, verification and validation, and commissioning and operations. Discusses the trade-offs between performance, lifecycle cost and system operability. Readings based on systems engineering standards and papers. Students apply the concepts of systems engineering to a cyber-electro-mechanical system, which is subsequently entered into a design competition. Keywords Systems Engineering, Stakeholder Analysis, Requirements, Concept Generation, Concept Selection, Design, Optimization, Verification, Validation, Operations, Lifecycle Properties Learning Prerequisites Required courses None. Recommended courses COM-502 Dynamical System Theory for Engineers MICRO-550 Applied Machine Learning MICRO-570 Advanced Machine Learning CS-454 Convex Optimization and Applications MATH-265 Introduction to Optimization and Operations Reserach MGT-484 Applied Probability and Stochastic Processes MATH-600 Optimization and Simulation Domain-Specific Courses listed in the Minor in Systems Engineering at EPFL Guide depending on the student's particular interests. Important concepts to start the course Experience in real world engineering projects either in industry (e.g. through internships, prior positions etc...) or academic research involving engineered systems or artifacts. Matlab and Simulink proficiency. \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the most important Systems Engineering standards and best practices as well as newly emerging approachesStructure the key steps in the systems engineering process starting with stakeholder analysis and ending with transitioning systems to operationsAnalyze the important role of humans as beneficiaries, designers, operators and maintainers of aerospace and other systemsCharacterize the limitations of the way that current systems engineering is practiced in terms of dealing with complexity, lifecycle uncertainty and other factorsApply the fundamental methods and tools of systems engineering to a simple cyber-electro-mechanical system as a stepping stone to more complex and real world projects Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsUse a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods The class consists of four pedagogical elements that are interwoven to maximize the use of individual, group and class time. These elements are lectures, assignments, readings and the design competition. \u00a0a)\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Lectures: the lectures will last 120 minutes and will present some of the key ideas and concepts for particular steps of the systems engineering process. The lectures will generally be held on Fridays and will roughly follow the 'V' model of systems engineering Lecture notes will be posted on stellar/moodle before the day of the lecture. During the lecture we will ask concept questions online which are used to both check conceptual understanding as well as for taking attendance. \u00a0b)\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Assignments: Small teams of students will do the assignments. Each team will turn in one deliverable per assignment with all team members that contributed clearly identified. The assignments will be scheduled such that they are more or less synchronized with the class materials. The assignment teams will mix MIT and EPFL students. \u00a0c)\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Readings: The readings in this class or are of two types. First we will assign weekly readings from the NASA Systems Engineering Handbook and other standard SE texts to supplement the class materials. You can expect to read about 20-30 pages per week in this fashion. Second, we will have one or two journal or conference papers per week as assigned reading. These readings will be discussed during lecture. \u00a0d)\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Design Competition: A design competition will be held at the end of the semester using VEX robotics kits. The design and operations of this system will be used as a context for the team assignments. Prizes will be awarded to the top three teams. Expected student activities This class will be taught jointly as ENG-421 at EPFL and 16.842 at MIT. All lectures will be streamed and recorded online using the webex system. Students are expected to log-in to webex inidividually and/or attend the class physically during lecture time. Besides class time students will work jointly in mixed teams on their assignments. Assessment methods There will be the following four methods for assessing student learning: 1. Concept questions during lecture (with expected electronic submission of answers) 2. Team-based assignments (bi-weekly) 3. Peer Review 360 Feedback at the end of the semester 4. Final Exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No Others Office hours will be held online for 60 minutes each week. The instructor and TA will be available to answer any questions students may have about the theory and methods presented in class or the assignments. The timing of office hours is as follows: Fridays from 17h00-18h00 right after lecture. Resources Bibliography [1a]\u00a0\u00a0 NASA Systems Engineering Handbook, NASA/SP-2007-6105, Rev 1, Dec 2007 \u00a0[1b]\u00a0 INCOSE Systems Engineering Handbook: A Guide for System Life Cycle Processes and Activities, 4th Edition, ISBN: 978-1-118-99940-0, 304 pages, July 2015 \u00a0[1c]\u00a0\u00a0 ISO/IEC/IEEE 15288:2015, Systems and software engineering -- System life cycle processes \u00a0[2]\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Rebentisch E., Crawley E., Loureiro G., Dickmann J., Catanzaro S., 'Using Stakeholder Value Analysis to Build Exploration Sustainability', AIAA-2005-2553, 1st Space Exploration Conference: Continuing the Voyage of Discovery, Orlando, Florida, Jan. 30-1, 2005 \u00a0[3a]\u00a0\u00a0 Hauser J.R., Clausing D., 'The House of Quality', Harvard Business Review, 63-73, May-June 1988 \u00a0[3b] de Weck, O.L. and Jones M. B., 'Isoperformance: Analysis and Design of Complex Systems with Desired Outcomes', Systems Engineering, 9 (1), 45-61,\u00a0 January 2006 \u00a0[4]\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Edward Crawley, Olivier de Weck, Steven Eppinger, Christopher Magee, Joel Moses, Warren Seering, Joel Schindall, David Wallace, Daniel Whitney, 'The Influence of Architecture in Engineering Systems', Monograph, 1st Engineering Systems Symposium, Cambridge, Massachusetts, March 29-31, 2004 \u00a0[5]\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Ross A.M., Hastings D., Warmkessel J., Diller N., 'Multi-Attribute Tradespace Exploration as Front End for Effective Space System', Journal of Spacecraft and Rockets, 41 (1), 20-28, January'February 2004 \u00a0[6]\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Sobieszczanski-Sobieski J.,; Agte J.S., ; Sandusky R.R., 'Bi-level Integrated System Synthesis', AIAA Journal, vol.38 no.1 (164-172), 2000 \u00a0[7] \u00a0\u00a0 Tahan M., Ben-Asher J.Z., 'Modeling and analysis of integration processes for engineering systems', Systems Engineering, Volume 8, Issue 1, Date: 2005, Pages: 62-77 \u00a0[8] \u00a0\u00a0 Cummings, M.L., & Mitchell P.J., Predicting Controller Capacity in Remote Supervision of Multiple Unmanned Vehicles, IEEE Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Part A Systems and Humans, (2008) 38(2), p. 451-460. \u00a0[9]\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Leveson, N., 'A New Accident Model for Engineering Safer Systems', Safety Science, Vol. 42, No. 4, April 2004 \u00a0[10]\u00a0 HBS Case: 9-603-083 Mission to Mars (A) This case is set in spring 2000, several months after two successive, failed missions to the planet Mars. Students are asked to evaluate the reasons for these failures in the context of NASA's \"Faster, Better, Cheaper\" program, which was initiated in 1992. They are also faced with the task of reconstructing a program for the exploration of Mars that considers the many uncertainties--political, financial, outcome related, and scientific--that can impact the program. Includes color exhibits. Setting: California; Government & regulatory; 2000 \u00a0[11]\u00a0 Shishko, R., 'Developing Analogy Cost Estimates for Space Missions', AIAA-2004-6012, Space 2004 Conference and Exhibit, San Diego, California, Sep. 28-30, 2004 \u00a0[12]\u00a0 de Weck, O.L., de Neufville R. and Chaize M., 'Staged Deployment of Communications Satellite Constellations in Low Earth Orbit', Journal of Aerospace Computing, Information, and Communication, 1 (3), 119-136, March 2004 \u00a0 Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que INCOSE Systems Engineering HandbookNASA Systems Engineering HandbookISO/IEC/IEEE 15288:2015, Systems and software engineering -- System life cycle processes Notes/Handbook \u00a0 The three major handbooks / standards used are listed above in the bibliograpgy as [1a], [1b], and [1c] and need to be accessible to the students."}
{"courseId": "MATH-458", "name": "Programming concepts in scientific computing", "description": "The aim of this course is to provide the background in scientific computing. The class includes a brief introduction to basic programming in c , it then focus on object oriented programming and c specific programming techniques. Content Flow control, I/O Pointers Blocks, functions, variables Classes, derivation and inheritance Templates Linear algebra Basics of parallel programming Learning Prerequisites Required courses Analysis I and II Linear Algebra Numerical Analysis The cours Numerical Analysis and Computational Mathematics has to be followed in parallel to the course if its contents are not yet mastered. Recommended courses A programming language (C, C , Fortran, Java, ...) Introduction to the Finite Element Method. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Interpret algorithms in c Modify algorithms in c Implement algorithms in c Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsGive feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion. Teaching methods Interactive lecture and projects in classroom Expected student activities Before each class the student is required to prepare with assigned reading. Programming assignements during the project hours and at home. Assessment methods The students will be evaluated with two quizz (QCM) during the semester and then with oral evaluations based on programming at the end of the semester."}
{"courseId": "CS-430", "name": "Intelligent agents", "description": "Software agents are widely used to control physical, economic and financial processes. The course presents practical methods for implementing software agents and multi-agent systems, supported by programming exercises, and the theoretical underpinnings including computational game theory. Content The course contains 4 main subject areas:\u00a01) Basic models and algorithms for individual agents:game-playing algorithms, reactive agents and reinforcement learning. Models and algorithms for rational, goal-oriented behavior in agents.2) Multi-agent systems: multi-agent planning, distributed algorithms for constraint satisfaction, coordination techniques for multi-agent systems.3) Self-interested agents:Models and algorithms for implementing self-interested agents motivated by economic principles: elements of computational game theory, models and algorithms for automated negotiation, social choice, mechanism design, electronic auctions and marketplaces.4) Implementing multi-agent systems:Agent platforms, ontologies and markup languages, web services and standards for their definition and indexing. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Intelligence Artificielle or another introductory course to AI Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose and implement methods for rational decision making in software agents, based on decision processes and AI planning techniquesChoose and implement methods for efficient rational decision making in teams of multiple software agentsModel scenarios with multiple self-interested agents in the language of game theoryEvaluate the feasibility of achieving goals with self-interested agents using game theoryDesign, choose and implement mechanisms for self-interested agents using game theoryImplement systems of software agents using agent platforms Teaching methods Ex cathedra, practical programming exercises Expected student activities Lectures: 3 hours Reading: 3 hours Assignments/programming: 4 hours Assessment methods Mini-projects and exercises 40%, final exam 60%"}
{"courseId": "ME-516", "name": "Lifecycle performance of product systems", "description": "Provide the conceptual, scientific, technical and methodological understanding of measuring and evaluating the impact of engineering decisions on economic and environmental performance in the lifecycle of a product-system. Content Overview of lifecycle performance challenges of product systems todayLifecycle characteristics of products in Beginning of Life (BOL), Middle of Life (MOL) and End of Life (EOL) phasesKey Performance Indicators (KPI) of product systems in BOL, MOL and EOLMethodologies for Lifecycle Economic & Environmental Performance Evaluation of product systems Overview of lifecycle design & assessment tools including LCA/LCCCase Studies of Lifecycle Economic & Environmental Performance Evaluation of alternative lifecycle product system configurations Keywords Product Lifecycle, LCA, LCC Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Principles of mechanical design Principles of materials Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose suitable methods and tools for the development, the modelling and simulation, the analysis and sol ution selection of an engineering problem in the mechanical engineering domain (product design, manufacturing process and system production ), CP1Formulate the modelling hypotheses to tackle a problem and choose the respective solution methods and tools considering the available resources, CP6Carry out a multi - criterion (technological, economic and environmental) analysis of the solutions, CP10 Transversal skills Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Make an oral presentation.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods The course is organised in theoretical sessions and the Lifecycle Modelling and Performance Evaluation to be realised using appropriate software in team projects. Expected student activities Participation in the course. Study documents and do presentations. Prepare and ask questions. Do a project using a software tool. Write a project report Assessment methods Group project reports on Lifecycle Modeling and Performance Evaluation of selected cases using appropriate software. An oral exam will concern the application of the theory in the projects."}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-312", "name": "Fluid mechanics for SV", "description": "This introductory course on fluids mechanics presents the basics concepts in fluids statics, dynamics and kinematics. All the concepts required to take the cardiovascular track in the Bioengineering Master program are covered."}
{"courseId": "MGT-597", "name": "Engineering internship credited with master project (master in Management of Technology and Entrepreneurship)", "description": "Industrial internship in a field related to Management of Technology and Entrepreneurship. Content The industrial internship allows: The immersion into the professional world To get acquainted with a company's processes and requirements To realize the importance of teamwork To put into practice the knowledge acquired during the MTE master cycle \u00a0 The industrial internship lasts 8 weeks and is followed by a 17-week academic master project. \u00a0 The master project allows: To realize an academic project covering theoretical and practical aspects of a topic in the field of Management of Technology and Entrepreneurship. Learning Outcomes Apply scientific, technical and organisational knowledge as appropriate to the context Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Respect the rules of the institution in which you are working.Manage priorities.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner. Assessment methods Written report, to be submitted according to the Section's directives. Evaluation report to be filled out by the student and the company supervisor at the end of the internship."}
{"courseId": "EE-706", "name": "Active noise control", "description": "Acoustics, electroacoustics transducers, filters design, antennas, active noise control, sound field control. Content Chapter I. Fundamental acoustics- Sound propagation - sound sources - interferences - refraction of sound - Guided waves in 1D (transmission lines, lumped-elements model) Chapter II. Active noise control concepts- Historics of active noise control - Feedforward active noise control - Feedback active noise control - From active noise cancellation to active sound absorption Chapter III. Electroacoustic transductions - Transductions and models (actuators, sensors, arrays of transducers) - Sound sources optimization and control Chapter IV. Transducer-based active concepts- Shunt loudspeakers - Bridging the gap between shunt loudspeakers and active sound absorption Keywords Acoustics, electroacoustics transducers, filters design, antennas, active noise control, sound field control. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Audio I and II, acoustic propagation"}
{"courseId": "CS-212", "name": "Reactive programming", "description": "The course introduces reactive programming. We present notions of signals, futures, and actors. Content Parallel programming parallel operations on sequences and sets parallel sorting, merging, and medians parallel operations on strings basics of Map-Reduce, along with commutativity and associativity conditions Reactive Programming Futures Reactive streams Actor model of concurrency Supervision and failure handling Reliable message delivery and management of conversational state in actors Learning Prerequisites Required courses Functional programming (CS-210) Algorithms (CS-250) Recommended courses Concurrency (CS-206) System oriented programming (CS-207) Important concepts to start the course Functional programming and functional data structures Algorithms and data structures Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Construct parallel softwareProduce reactive distributed software Transversal skills Resolve conflicts in ways that are productive for the task and the people concerned.Respect relevant legal guidelines and ethical codes for the profession.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingUse both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsUse a work methodology appropriate to the task.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Ex catedra MOOC Exercises"}
{"courseId": "MGT-404", "name": "Principles of intellectual property management", "description": "This course presents the various types of intellectual property rights and explains how they can contribute to key aspects of the management of innovative firms. It cover firms of different sizes (startups, SMEs, MNEs) and in different industries (from pharmaceuticals to IT). Content The course will cover topics such as: Types of IP rights IP protection and innovation incentives IP and innovation financing IP and technology commercialization IP and technology licensing Litigation Trade secrets and industrial espionage Keywords Intellectual Property; Patent; Trademark; Trade Secret Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the various types of IP rightsAssess / Evaluate a business situation involving IPPropose an appropriate IP strategy Transversal skills Respect relevant legal guidelines and ethical codes for the profession.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingAccess and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods The course is a combination of formal lectures, case studies, expert presentations, student presentations. Expected student activities Attendance and participation at lectures, reading written material, doing a project. Assessment methods Continuous assessment combining: Class participation (assessed through written preparation of cases): 25% Group project and presentation: 35% Individual oral exam: 40% Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-425", "name": "Optics laboratories II", "description": "This laboratory work allows students to deepen their understanding of optical instruments, optoelectronic devices and diagnostic methods. Students will be introduced in state of the art optical instruments and measurement principles. Content 4 experiments on Fourier optics, optical fibers, lasers Keywords Optical instruments, optical measurement techniques, Diode laser, He-Ne laser, Fourier optics, waveguide and fiber optics, error analysis Learning Prerequisites Required courses MICRO-420: Advanced optics MICRO-421: Imaging optics MICRO-422: Lasers and optics of nanostructures MICRO-522: Integrated optics MICRO-523: Optical radiation detection methods MICRO-321 Optical engineering I MICRO-321 Optical engineering II MICRO-424: Optics laboratories I Recommended courses Bachelor in Microengineering, or Electrical and electronic engineering, or Physics. Important concepts to start the course Basics of optics, programming with MATLAB or similar, matrix calculations, Fourier transformation, electromagnetic waves, refraction and reflection, polarization, basics of geometrical optics, semiconductor physics, laser physics, error analysis Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Apply principles of laser securityPerform data analysis using excel and MatlabAssess / Evaluate the reliability of a measurementsPerform an optical measurementInterpret measurement resultsEstimate measurement errors Transversal skills Manage priorities.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsContinue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingTake feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner. Teaching methods Practical laboratory work in group (2 persons) 4 Experiments (2 afternoons) Expected student activities Individual activity ' Participation at all experiments ' Execution of practical work ' Keep a Laboratory note book Group activity ' Scientific/technical report writing per experiment Assessment methods Discussion of basic concepts during instruction (individual) Evaluation of experimental work (individual) Evaluation of written report (group) Evaluation of laboratory notebook (individual) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "AR-415", "name": "UE L : Art and architecture: constructing the view I", "description": "Key competences for every architect are the ability to represent ideas coherently and communicate a project's aims effectively. Design, painting, photography, modelling and graphics are essential to the architectural project and become didactic instruments for the development of individual talent. Content Compounds - words and images Perception, inspiration and imagination serve as essential cornerstones and starting points in every creative activity in design and architecture. Creativity does not simply flow from nothingness; rather, it needs an archive ' be that the mind or a sketch book ' from where it draws inspiration, re-arranges and composes. Architects, in their quest for a design, undoubtedly turn first and foremost to the graphic form:\u00a0 fragments, images or set pieces therefrom, seen or internalized, which are then arranged into novel relationships. These design components consist for the most part of graphic signs that refer to and/or reflect reality linguistically, either in an apparently real or in an abstract way. But these graphic components originate mostly in our visual environment. The topic of the current course builds on the insight that language and its syntax may also serve as an approach to creative design.\u00a0 The course's starting point, borrowed from linguistics, is the possibility of combining individual words into a new compound word, the meaning of which may differ from the meaning of each of its parts. This type of word formation, called compounding, is a salient feature in particular of the German language. The number of possible word combinations, especially of noun compounds, is sheer endless. The English language, to a lesser extent, also allows this type of word formation. Thus it will be used an experimental approach to design.\u00a0 At the start of the course, the participants make up a series of compound nouns that do not correspond to any existing reality and have no fixed denotation (for example stair bed > stair-bed; sleep door > sleep-door). Next, these fictitious linguistic coinages are to be visually encapsulated and translated into seemingly real architectural objects, using the professional digital image techniques taught during the course. Keywords Idea and representation, the real and the imaginary, the object and its image, architectural expression, figurative digital tools, digital image techniques, photography, image montage, rendering. Learning Prerequisites Required courses -\u00a0\u00a0 basic knowledge of techniques of image editing and 3D-modelling-\u00a0\u00a0 laptop to work with during the course days.-\u00a0\u00a0 Photoshop (min. CS4) and Cinema 4D software installed on computer.-\u00a0\u00a0 basic knowledge of English. Important concepts to start the course basic knowledge of techniques of photography, image editing (Photoshop) and 3D- modelling. laptop to work with during the course days, Adobe Photoshop and Cinema 4D software installed on computer. basic knowledge of English. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: investigate and interpret the visual environment.enhance visual faculties of perception and expression.describe visual principles of photorealistic images.simulate and reconstruct a fragment of built reality by means of digital image techniques.formulate a personal creative process.develop and apply conceptual pictorial approaches.select and use image strategies best suited to the transmission of an architectural idea.develop unconventional and atmospheric image strategies and aesthetics.specify the possibilities and potential afforded by digital image techniques.develop and apply conceptual pictorial approaches.produce computer-generated images and image montages. Transversal skills Manage priorities.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources. Teaching methods lectures, workshops, practical work (individual) intermediate exercises and final work, desk critiques.\u00a0 Expected student activities strong interest in (digital) image processing techniques. mandatory and attentive attendance during all of the course days. high level of personal commitment and active participation during course days . weekly assignments. Assessment methods continuous assessment. intermediate exercises, desk critiques (60% of grade). review final work (40% of grade). Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No Others \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "CS-320", "name": "Computer language processing", "description": "We teach the fundamental aspects of analyzing and interpreting computer languages, including the techniques to build compilers. The new title is \"Computer Language Processing\". Content 1. Overview, source languages and run-time models 2. Review of formal languages 3. Lexical analysis 4. Syntactic analysis (parsing) 5. Name analysis 6. Type checking 7. Code generation 8. Data-flow analysis 9. Run-time organization and memory management \u00a0 Keywords programming language; compiler; interpreter; regular expression; context-free grammar; type system; code generation; static code analysis Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Discrete structures Theoretical computer science Programming in Scala Computer architecture I Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design a programming languageConstruct a compilerCoordinate development with project partnerFormulate correctness conditions for compilerEstimate time to implement a programming language featureProduce a working programming language implementationDecide which language features make implementation difficultSpecify programming language and compiler functionality Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Respect the rules of the institution in which you are working.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Make an oral presentation.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Ex catedra Exercises on whiteboard Exercises using dedicated software Project work, indepdently and under supervision of assistants Assessment methods 50% Project 25% Mid-term quiz 25% End-of-term quiz in December Resources Bibliography Andrew W. Appel, Modern compiler implementation in Java (or ML), Addison-Wesley 1997 (full PDF available from EPFL library) Alfred V. Aho, Monica S. Lam, Ravi Sethi, Jeffrey D. Ullman: Compilers: Principles, Techniques, and Tools (2nd Edition, 2006) Niklaus Wirth: Compiler Construction, neat textbook from a prominent classical authority. Freely available \u00a0http://www.ethoberon.ethz.ch/WirthPubl/CBEAll.pdf Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Additionally, all materialCompilers, principle, techniques and tools / Aho Compiler Construction / Wirth Modern compiler implementation in Java / Appel Notes/Handbook http://lara.epfl.ch/w/cc Faboulous and gently paced videos:\u00a0https://www.coursera.org/course/compilers"}
{"courseId": "CH-448", "name": "Photomedicine", "description": "The most important clinical diagnostic and therapeutic applications of light will be described. In addition, this course will address the principles governing the interactions between light and biological tissues, their optical properties and basic concepts in photobiology and photochemistry. Content Brief history Radiometry and Photometry Brief introduction to general optics and tissue optics Light dosimetry Light-tissues interactions Introduction to molecular optical spectroscopy (Absorption, fluorescence spectroscopy and imaging techniques; vibrational and Raman spectroscopy; time-resolved luminescence spectroscopy and imaging) Dyes and luminophores Instrumental aspects (Light sources, detectors and optical systems) Light sources, detectors and optical systems. Illustrative and most important applications of light in photomedicine\u00a0 Keywords Photomedicine, biomedical optics, tissue optics, photobiology, photochemistry, light-tissue interactions, photodiagnosis, phototherapy, light dosimetry, dyes, photosensitizers. Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Basic background in biology, chemistry and optics. Learning Outcomes Define the spectral design of apparatus used in biomedical optics.Compute the light dose in biological tissues.Identify the optical components to develop an apparatus used in photodetection and phototherapy.Describe the working principles of apparatus used in biomedical optics.Model the propagation of light in biological tissues.Interpret data obtained or published in the field of photomedicine.Describe the photobiological and photochemical mechanisms involved in photomedicine. Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Write a scientific or technical report.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art.Summarize an article or a technical report.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking Teaching methods Lectures, Exercises performed at home and during the courses, recent literature review papers, classroom discussion oral presentation. Expected student activities Exercises, lecture of review papers, classroom discussion oral presentation. Assessment methods Oral exam (2/3) oral presentation (1/3). Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No Forum No Others Lecturer office hours: Thursday, 16:00 - 18:00. Resources Bibliography - Optical-Thermal Response of Laser Irradiated Tissue, A.J. Welch & M.J.C. van Gemert (Plenum, 1995).\u00a0- Principles of Fluorescence Spectroscopy, J.R. Lakowicz (Kluwer, 1999).\u00a0- Optics, E. Hecht (Addison Wesley, 2000).\u00a0- Handbook of Photomedicine, M. Hamblin & Y.-Y. Huang (CRC Press, 2013).\u00a0- Handbook of Biomedical Fluorescence, M.-A. Mycek & B. W. Pogue (Dekker, 2003). Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Optical-Thermal Response of Laser-Irradiated Tissue / WelchOptics / HechtHandbook of Biomedical Fluorescence / MycekPrinciples of Fluorescence Spectroscopy / Lakowicz Handbook of Photomedicine / Hamblin Notes/Handbook Slides available on Moodle. Websites http://lcom.epfl.ch/wagniereshttp://people.epfl.ch/georges.wagnieres?lang=en&cvlang=enhttp://www.opticsinfobase.org/vjbo/virtual_issue.cfmhttp://www.photobiology.info Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=XYZ"}
{"courseId": "ME-454", "name": "Modelling and optimization of energy systems", "description": "The goal of the lecture is to present and apply techniques for the modelling and the thermo-economic optimisation of industrial process and energy systems. The lecture covers the problem statement, the solving methods for the simulation and the single and multi-objective optimisation problems. Content - Concepts of Computer Aided Process System Engineering methods to tackle the problems of energy conversion systems modelling and optimisation. The students will acquire a methodology to state the problem, identify the solving procedure, solve the problem and analyse the results;- Definition of the basic system modelling concepts : state variables, energy and mass balances, simulation parameters and equations, degree of freedom analysis, different types of specifications, inequalities, objective functions;- Energy systems equipments models;- System models : flowsheets, degrees of freedom, sequential or simultaneous solving approach, numerical methods and their implications;- Measurement data reconciliation and parameter identification;- Calculating systems performances : operating cost, efficiency, environmental impact, investments, thermo-economic and environomic performances;- Stating and solving optimization problems : decision variables, objective functions and constraints, solving strategies, numerical methods and their implications;- Realization of a case study. Keywords Process system engineering, Process simulation, optimization Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Prerequisite skills Master the concepts of mass, energy, and momentum balance, E1 (Thermodynamique et \u00e9nerg\u00e9tique I) Compute the thermodynamic properties of a fluid, E2 (Thermodynamique et \u00e9nerg\u00e9tique I) Master the concepts of heat and mass transfer, E3 (Heat and mass transfer) Understand the main thermodynamic cycles, E5 (Thermodynamique et \u00e9nerg\u00e9tique I) Notion of optimization (Introduction \u00e0 l'optimisation diff\u00e9rentiable) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Master the concepts of thermodynamic efficiency, E6Establish the flow diagram of an industrial process a nd calculate the corresponding energy and mass balance, E22Analyse the energy and exergy efficiency of industrial energy systems, E23Model, design and optimize energy conversion systems and ind ustrial processes, E24 Transversal skills Write a scientific or technical report.Make an oral presentation.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods The course is organised as theoretical sessions and the resolution of a real case study to be realised in a team project. Assessment methods The case study will be evaluated. An oral exam will concern the application of the theory in the case study."}
{"courseId": "ME-618", "name": "1st Workshop on Advances in CFD and MD modelling of Interface Dynamics in Capillary Two-Phase Flows", "description": "This workshop instructs researchers on the latest advances in the computational modelling of the interfacial dynamics of capillary two-phase flow phenomena using the CFD-based frameworks of VOF, LS, ALE-FEM, and Molecular Dynamics methods. Lectures are complemented with practical hands-on sessions. Content The workshop is composed of the following main parts: Mathematical basis of two-phase flow, Computational Fluid Dynamics and Molecular Dynamics approximations, surface tension, and phase change; Eulerian techniques with diffused interface methods to advect the interface, Volume Of Fluid (VOF) and Level Set (LS) methods, implicit advection of a color function, geometrical reconstruction and interface compression of the interface, interface topology calculation, surface tension and phase change modelling on a VOF and LS framework; Eulerian techniques for two-phase flows advecting marker points to preserve interface sharpness, numerical methods to advect marker points, mass conservation, front remeshing; Arbitrary Lagrangian-Eulerian (ALE) finite-element methods (FEM) for two-phase flows, finite element formulation, use of python language to build simplified models, update of the mesh morphology, moving boundaries; Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulations of liquid-vapor interfaces and phase change, structure and stability of liquid-vapor interfacial regions, interface thermophysics for polar and non-polar fluids, thin-film stability and rupture at the molecular level; Use of an opensource CFD package (OpenFOAM) with VOF and LS to simulate two-phase flows. Use of an in-house ALE-FEM code (Prof. Anjos) to simulate two-phase flows with an interface-fitting computational mesh. Use of an in-house MD code (Prof. Carey) to simulate the interface dynamics and phase change at the molecular level. Note External lecturers include: Prof. Van P. Carey (UC Berkeley, USA), Prof. M. Trujillo (Univ. of Wisconsin-Madison, USA), Profs. A. Tomiyama and K. Hayashi (Kobe Univ., Japan), Prof. G. Anjos (State Univ. Rio de Janeiro, Brazil) Keywords Computational Fluid Dynamics, Molecular Dynamics, Surface tension, Two-phase flow. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Numerical Flow SimulationNumerical Methods in Heat TransferDiscretization Methods in Fluids Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Know the different computational techniques to advect a fluid interfaceKnow the basic models to implement surface tension and phase changeWrite numerical codes to solve simplified two-phase flow configurations."}
{"courseId": "MGT-500", "name": "Early detection of innovation potential", "description": "The course aims at providing knowledge and competences for the strategic management of innovation, by developing methodological capabilities for the early detection of both risks and opportunities linked with innovation dynamics, in the short and medium term, with all the necessary follow-up steps Content The course comprises on the one hand, knowledge acquisition courses (sessions 1-6 and 7-10, with focused lectures, case studies and in-class exercises) and on the other hand, a competence acquisition perspective, consisting, all along the semester, in working on the semester's major exercise by groups of 3. The content of the course sessions is as follows\u00a0: Methodological base 1: The monitoring approaches Methodological base 2: Trend analysis Methodological base 3: The forecasting approaches Methodological base 4: Scenario design and planning Methodological base 5: The assessment approaches Methodological base 6: The creativity issue Advanced research problems\u00a01: Early detection issues Advanced research problems\u00a02: Systems' approaches Advanced research problems 3: Public policy issues Wrapping up for management of innovation challenges: A Strategic intelligence synthesis \u00a0 Content of the semester's major exercise: defined by the students (teams of 3) upon a double choice, namely: 1) the topic of each exercise, out of a 30-some shopping list and 2) the methodological package. 6-8 topics will be therefore studied in depth while carrying out these major exercises, thus expanding the content of topics and issues covered by the course. All topics are related to technology and innovation challenges. Keywords Environmental scanning, technology foresight, forecasting, technology assessment, early detection, weak signal analysis, innovation management, strategic intelligence, creativity Learning Prerequisites Required courses No required courses Recommended courses No recommended courses others than those dealing with innovation management in MTEE cursus Important concepts to start the course None for entering the course (the course's theme is supposed new to all, as experience already showed). Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Define the course theme's key terms and conceptsAnalyze situations, stakes, problems or contexts typical of the course's domainHypothesize a problem or a reference stakeQuantify situations and stakes typical of the course' domainAssess / Evaluate a problem, a hypothesis or a project from different anglesTranspose a hypothesis, a model or a scenario stemming from a given context and process it for its re-use in another contextExpound a problem, a hypothesis or a scenario on a technology foresight theme Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Standard roll-out for all sessions, divided in three parts:\u00a0a lecture and a presentation of case studies on the session's main theme(s), and finally one or more small in-class exercise(s). Formal exercises (major semester exercises) elaborated during the whole semester by groups of three and presented during session 12 or 13. In the early elaboration phase, an orientation meeting with teacher is recommended. Expected student activities In the classroom, during each session: 1) during formal lecture and case study presentation, questions or comments are expected; 2) in the third part (in-class exercises), small group work will take place, occasionally with results reported upon by rolling rapporteurs, otherwise synthetised by lecturer. As for the semester's major exercises: contribution to group work and final powerpoint presentation (i.e., the document elaboration, and directly or indirectly, the oral presentation). Aside in-class work and major exercise group work: reading of the sessions' slides (also preparing for the final MCQ exam), examining the extended version of the sessions' slides as well as the additional documents, reading the other work group major exercise slides. Assessment methods 1) Continuous control (during the semester) and 2) Final exam during the semester's last sessin (December 2016), counting, for these two assessment components, as follows: 50 %\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Oral presentation (during session 11 or 12), of a powerpoint document, result of team work carried out during the whole semester under the label \u00abmajor exercise\u00bb 50 %\u00a0 \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 MCQ exam, taking place during the semester's last session (December 2016), under the form of an individual exam bearing on the slides presented during the semester's first ten sessions Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No Others Almost constant lecturer email accessibility, and option for an orientation meeting with lecturer to prepare the major exercise's outline. Resources Bibliography After an initial bibliography provided in the syllabus, references will be then given along the course roll-out and its thematic progression, week after week. Notes/Handbook No handbook, but an equivalent on Moodle comprising the sessions' slides (in the short version serving as reference for the final MCQ exam), the extended versions and the additional documents providing more information on the course's themes Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=378"}
{"courseId": "ENV-402", "name": "Sanitary engineering in developing countries", "description": "This MSc course deals with the water & sanitation challenges in developing countries. You will learn about the dialogue on water and sanitation in DCs, identify key players and know the existing options of water & sanitation technol. be able to design a technical project and analyse proposals. Content Overview of the health situation, water supply, and liquid, solid waste and faecal sludge disposal in developing countries. International development policy. Technical and scientific fundamentals of water supply, sanitation & solid waste management (collection, haulage, treatment, reuse). Material flows in the water supply, waste disposal and urban agriculture. Connection between excreta disposal and health. New concepts and approaches for a sustainable water supply and sanitation in developingcountries. Keywords Developing Countries, Health impacts of water and sanitation, Water Quality, Water supply and treatment, Excreta Management, Wastewater management, Faecal sludge management, Solid waste management, Environmental sanitation Planning Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Students should be familiar with basic concepts of environmental engineering including physical, chemical and biological processes. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: InterpretAssembleClassifyAnalyzeDefine Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources. Teaching methods Reading, exercises, teamwork, guest lecturers Expected student activities 2 exercises (group work possible). Assessment methods 100 % written test (120 min) during the exam session"}
{"courseId": "CH-319", "name": "Experimental biochemistry and biophysics", "description": "During a semester long experiment students plan and perform the construction from DNA bricks of a fluorescent sensor protein that will be expressed and purified for characterization by biochemical and spectroscopic methods. A report in the style of a scientific paper will delivered. Content ' Molecular biology: DNA fragment isolation by PCR, DNA restriction and ligation, plasmid purification and sequence analysis, agarose gel electrophoresis. ' Biochemistry: Bacterial protein expression, protein purification by affinity chromatography, analysis by SDS-PAGE and spectroscopy, fluorescent labelling ' Biophysics: Fluorescence spectroscopy, enzyme kinetics or molecular interactions. \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Biochimie I (CH-111); chemistry practicals \u00a0 Recommended courses Molecular and cellular biophysics I (CH-311) Important concepts to start the course genetic engineering & DNA manipulation; protein synthesis; DNA & protein analysis; absorbance and fluorescence spectrometry; enzymology / receptor-ligand interactions \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design cloning strategyProduce a scientific report and high-quality lab journalIntegrate Good laboratory behavior and wet lab practiceAssess / Evaluate your data criticallyProduce a purified expressed proteinAnalyze proteins and DNACharacterize sensor functionUse common sense and logical deduction Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Collect data.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Students prepare and discuss experimental approach Laboratory experimentation Discussion of experimental progress and results Reporting on scientific level Expected student activities Good theoretical preparation & planning of lab work before doing experiments; skillful execution of experiments, being organized & keeping a lab book; thorough analysis of results, writting a scientific-grade report; respecting security rules and fellow students. \u00a0 Assessment methods Evaluation of preparation and planning Evaluation of experimental execution, including good laboratory behaviour Evaluation of comprehension through discussion & written questions Evaluation of report: including structure, data treatment and presentation, critical attitude , comparison to scientific literature \u00a0 Supervision Assistants Yes Others Discussions are possible at office hours, depending on the availability of assistants and lecturer, Experimentation might be possible at office hours, depending on the availability of assistants and lecturer, and only upon the allowance of lecturer. \u00a0 Resources Bibliography TP manual Biochemistry & Biophysics text books ApE; a plasmid editor free software Methods, Structures, and other useful ino via my.epfl.ch Websites http://my.epfl.ch"}
{"courseId": "CS-444", "name": "Virtual reality", "description": "The goal of VR is to embed the users in a potentially complex virtual environment while ensuring that they are able to react as if this environment were real. The course provides a human perception-action background and describes the key techniques for achieving efficient VR applications. Content The first lectures focus more on the technical means (hw & sw) for acheiving the hands-on sessions:\u00a0- Visual display (CAVE and stereoscopy)- Interaction devices and sensors- Software environment\u00a0The proportion of more theoretical VR and Neuroscience background increases over the semester:\u00a0- Key Human perception abilities, Cybersickness, Immersion, presence and flow- Basic 3D interaction techniques: Magic vs Naturalism- The perception of action- Haptic interaction- What makes a virtual human looking alive ?- Motion capture for full-body interaction- VR, cognitive science and true experimental design Keywords 3D interaction, display, sensors, immersion, presence Learning Prerequisites Required courses (CS 341) Introduction to Computer Graphics Recommended courses (CS 211) Introduction to Visual Computing Important concepts to start the course from Computer Graphics: - perspective transformations - representation of orientation - 3D modelling hierarchy - matrix algebra: translation, orientation, composition Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe how the human perception-action system is exploited in VRApply the concepts of immersions, presence and flowGive an example of applications of VR in different industrial sectorsChoose a method of immersion suited for a given 3D interaction contextExplain the possible causes of cybersickness in a given VR system configurationDesign a VR system involving 3D interactions Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals. Teaching methods Ex cathedra Hands-on sessions on VR devices in the first half of the semester, a mini-project in groups on personal laptops will have to integrate various components of 3D real-time interaction. the group will negociate their project proposal with the course responsible TA who will assess whether it meets the key specifications and is original enough. Expected student activities exploit citation analysis tools to evaluate a scientific paper combine\u00a0 libraries to produce an original 3D interaction experiment the hands-on practical work in the lab synthesize the knowledge acquired in course and hands-on in the quizzes and final oral Assessment methods Throughout semester: 4 Hand-on sessions (4%), 2 Quizzes (10%), 1 paper citation study (16%), 1 mini-project (40%), 1 oral (30%) Supervision Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "ChE-602(1)", "name": "Recent Events in Energy-1", "description": "Hydrogen storage, Metal organic frameworks, Membranes, Gas separations, Hybrid materials, Catalysis, Engineering of energy systems, Process systms engineering, Photovoltaics, Physical and Analytical Electrochemistry, Molecular simulations Content Recent Events in Energy is a new series of seminars that will take place at EPFL Valais Wallis in Sion. The aim of these events is to have a better grasp of the leading research in energy by inviting World Leading Scientists from different institutions (9-10 per semester) and Professors or Senior Scientists from EPFL (4-5 per semester). This will be highly beneficial for our PhD students in Sion (who must attend these seminars) as they will broaden their horizons in several research areas. They will also have the opportunity to meet the invited speakers, have lunch together with the aim to promote and encourage discussions between them. The invited scientists, experts in the fields of: - Hydrogen storage, - Metal organic frameworks, - Membranes, - Gas separations, - Hybrid materials, - Catalysis, - Engineering of energy systems, - Process systems engineering, - Photovoltaics, - Physical and Analytical Electrochemistry and - Molecular simulations will give a 45 mins presentation, followed by 15 mins of questions. The speakers will be invited to come at EPFL Valais Wallis in Sion each semester and give their talks on Thursdays from 4-5 pm.\u00a0 The invited speakers and talk titles will be announced at the beginning of each semester on a website. Each student has to attend the seminar series for two academic semesters in order to collect 28 hours of attendance and thus gain 2 ECTS credits. During the meetings between the PhD students and speaker and/or over lunch, the student has to present and discuss his/her research activity with the invited speaker; this can be very beneficial for their personal development academically. Finally, at the end of each semester and as a further assessement (exam), each student has to choose one of the seminars presented and write a report - what did they like or dislike for example, which has to be submitted to and approved by the seminar series organizers. Note Next session: Spring semester 2017 Enrolment: edch@epfl.ch \u00a0 Keywords Energy, Research Talks Learning Prerequisites Required courses MA2"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-620", "name": "Self-assembly of Microsystems", "description": "The course will provide fundamental key aspects governing the self-assembly as well as describe concrete application examples in the field of manufacturing and micro-assembly that are already in place or expected to arrive in the future."}
{"courseId": "HUM-427(b)", "name": "History of globalization II", "description": "This course is intended to impart knowledge necessary to understand the elements that determined the characteristics, both shared and unique, of frontiers in relation to time, space, geography, etc.; as well as analytical, comparative, conceptual, organizational and communication skills. Content See the full description of the course in the Introduction to project of the fall semester: History of globalization I (HUM-427a). Learning Prerequisites Required courses History of globalization I: HUM-427(a)"}
{"courseId": "ME-481", "name": "Biomechanics of the cardiovascular system", "description": "This lecture will cover anatomy and physiology of the cardiovascular system, biophysics of the blood, cardiac mechanics, hemodynamics and biomechanics of the arterial system, microcirculation and biomechanics of the venous system. Content IntroductionPhysics of living matter and biomedical engineering; anatomy and physiology of the cardiovascular systemBiophysics of the bloodBlood rheology; mechanical properties of red blood cells.Cardiac mechanicsMechanical activity of the heart; biomechanics of the cardiac muscle; Pressure-volume diagram; Frank-Starling laws of the heart; Varying elastance principle; Pump function graphs; Cardiac energetics; Arterio-ventricular coupling; Windkessel effect.Hemodynamics and biomechanics of the arterial systemStructure, passive and active mechanical properties of the arterial wall; pulsatile blood flow in a rigid tube, model of Womersley; propagation of pressure and flow waves in an elastic tube; reflection and attenuation of waves in arteries; physical models of the arterial system; blood-vessel wall interactions.MicrocirculationHemodynamics in capillaries; exchange of substances and liquids across the capillary wall.Biomechanics of the venous systemBiomechanics of the venous wall; flow in collapsible tubes; \"Waterfall\" phenomenon."}
{"courseId": "EE-491(a)", "name": "Project in Electrical Energy Systems", "description": "The student applies the acquired skills to an academic or industrial projects. Content During this project the students will employ the acquired skills to solve a practical problem. The themes of these projects are chosen amongst the research and development activities of one of the laboratories affiliated to the Electrical and Electronic Engineering Section. The lists of projects are available on the Web site of each of the laboratories of the Section of Electrical and Electronic Engineering. In the framework of this project it is possible to participate in an interdisciplinary project with studets from other sections. Keywords Application. Communication. Learning Outcomes Outcomes depending on the project topic Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art.Collect data.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Write a scientific or technical report.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback. Teaching methods Project-based teaching"}
{"courseId": "ME-467", "name": "Turbulence", "description": "This course provides an introduction to the physical phenomenon of turbulence, its probabilistic description and modeling approaches including RANS and LES. Students are equipped with the basic knowledge to tackle complex flow problems in science and engineering practice. Content Turbulence is a ubiquitous physical phenomenon observed when fluids - liquids or gases - flow at high speeds. The fluctuating chaotic non-equilibrium phenomenon modifies the lift and drag of airfoils and affects the efficiency of mixing and combustion. It also is the driving force creating our weather and influences timescales on which stars and galaxies form in the universe. This course provides an introduction to the physical phenomenon of turbulence, its probabilistic description and modeling approaches. Thereby students will be equipped with the fundamental understanding of turbulence that allows to tackle specific flow problems in science and engineering practice.\u00a0Specific topics covered include Based on the Navier-Stokes equations together with symmetry assumptions, a probabilistic description of turbulence will be developed. The results of classical Kolmogorov theory for turbulence in an incompressible Newtonian flow will be interpreted in terms of a phenomenological description of physical processes in turbulence. Specific concepts include energy cascades and the quantitative estimation of relevant length- and timescales of the turbulent dynamics.\u00a0 The need for modeling turbulent flows will be motivated and common turbulence models as well as associated simulation strategies will be discussed. Finally, current research topics including intermittency corrections of the classical Kolmogorov results, transition to fully developed turbulence and turbulence decay will be covered. Keywords turbulence, non-equilibrium statistical physics Learning Prerequisites Required courses Incompressible fluid mechanics Important concepts to start the course basics of statisticsvariance and meanFourier analysisNavier-Stokes equations Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe a flow in scientific terms, AH1Describe the physical differences between laminar and turbulent flows, AH4Explain the connection between deterministic chaotic flow dynamics and a probabilistic description of turbulence.Estimate relevant length- and timescale of turbulent flows.Describe standard turbulence modeling concepts, their advantages and limitations.Choose appropriate turbulence models for engineering applications, AH26Differentiate between transitional and fully developed turbulence.Link flow behaviour with non-dimensional parameters (e.g. Reynolds and Mach numbers), AH2 Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsMake an oral presentation. Teaching methods Lectures and homework Assessment methods Graded project exercise and\u00a0 Written exam during the semester"}
{"courseId": "CH-241", "name": "Chemical thermodynamics", "description": "This course enables the acquisition of basic concepts of thermodynamics including the 1st and 2nd principles and the use of physical properties for balance of chemical reactions at liquid and gaseous states. Content 1. First principle: work and heatFundamental variables of state, internal energy, closed and open systems. \u00a02. Second principle: EntropyStatistical (Boltzmann) and thermodynamic interpretation, reversible and irreversible processes, equilibrium state, heat engines (Carnot, Strirling). \u00a03. Auxiliary variables of stateEnthalpy, free enthalpy and free energy, their interpretation and usefulness. Fundamental equations and characteristic variables. Maxwell relations, chemical potential.\u00a04. Treatment of mixtureMolar and partial molar quantities. \u00a05. General treatment of chemical reactionsExtent of reaction, reaction variables (reaction enthalpy entropy and free enthalpy), standard state, heat of reaction, heat of formation of chemical compounds. \u00a06. Thermodynamics of gasesIdeal and real gases, fugacity, state equations (Van der Waals equation, virial coefficients). Joule Thompson effect. \u00a07. Chemical reactions in the gas phaseMass action law, equilibrium constant, Kirchhoff's rule and Van t'Hoff equation.\u00a08. Phase equilibria of pure compoundsClausius-Clapeyron equation, phase diagram, supercritical state. 9. Colligative Properties Raoult's and Henry's laws, depression of freezing point, elevation of boiling point, osmotic pressure Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe and apply the main principles (laws) of thermodynamicsDescribe and understand the equilibrium conditionsUse the concepts of internal energy, enthalpy, entropy, free energy and chemical potentialUse partial molar quantitiesUse equations of state to calculate thermodynamic properties of real gasesFormulate relationships between thermodynamic derivatives of fundamental equationsAnalyze phase diagrams of a pure substanceDescribe statistical interpretations of thermodynamic properties Teaching methods Lectures with hand-outs. Exercises. Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "MATH-731(2)", "name": "Topics in geometric analysis II", "description": "The goal of this course is to introduce the student to the basic notion of analysis on metric (measure) spaces, quasiconformal mappings, potential theory on metric spaces, etc. The subjects covered will vary each year. Content Geometric Analysis, which was traditionally dealing with smooth Riemannian manifolds has been developed over the last two decades to the context of non Riemannian metric spaces which may be quite irregular. This development has revitalized the subject of metric geometry which faded away after 1940. The goal of this course is to introduce the student to the basic notion of analysis on metric (measure) spaces, quasiconformal mappings, potential theory on metric spaces, etc. The subjects covered will vary each year."}
{"courseId": "MSE-641", "name": "Methods of Modelling and Simulation of Materials Science", "description": "Intermediate programming in Mathematica Computation and visualization of structures and structural relations, of mechanical properties of materials, of quantum mechanical properties and band structures. Computation of instabilities and phase transitions. Content Intermediate programming in MathematicaComputation and visualization of structures and structural relations.Computation and visualization of mechanical properties of materials.Computation and visualization of quantum mechanical properties and band structures.Computation of instabilities and phase transitions. Keywords materials science, problem solving, applied programming Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Some programming experience in any language.Beginner level knowledge of crystal structure, thermodynamics, kinetics, quantum mechanics, mechanical properties."}
{"courseId": "CH-413", "name": "Nanobiotechnology and biophysics", "description": "This course concerns modern bioanalytical techniques to investigate biomolecules both in vitro and in vivo, including recent methods to image, track and manipulate single molecules. We cover the basic principles of the respective methods and discuss examples from the current scientific literature. Content Techniques to monitor the function of single biomolecules and complexes single molecule fluorescence spectroscopy (FRET, confocal and total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy - Force spectroscopy to monitor function of single proteins and cells - Microscopy beyond the diffraction limit: Super-resolution microscopy \u00a0 Surface sensors to elucidate and quantify molecular interactions: - Immobilizing biopolymers on surfaces - Optical & electrical detection techniques \u00a0 Development and application of microfluidic and nanofluidic sensor devices: - Miniaturisation of analytical techniques: lab on a chip - Chemical and biochemical sensors - Next generation DNA sequencing approaches \u00a0 Engineered biomolecules to manipulate cells or as drug delivery vehicles - Nano-containers for drug delivery vectors - DNA based self-assembly and nanofabrication of complex structures Keywords Nanobiotechnology, biophysics, sensors, single-molecule, fluroescence, FRET, drug delivery, DNA origami, lab-on-a-chip, super-resolution microscopy, force spectroscopy Learning Prerequisites Required courses Biochemistry I and II Molecular and Cellular Biophysics I and II Important concepts to start the course Biomolecular absorption and fluroescence General biochemistry Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the fundamental principles of nano-biotechnological and biophysical methodsDistinguish the advantages and disadvantages of the respective biophysical and nano-biotechnological methodsDiscuss the limits of nanobiotechnological methodsChoose appropriate methodologies to tackle a specific biological problemAnalyze the current scientific literature on nanobiotechnological applicationsDesign approaches to robustly sense and measure specific biomolecules using integrated devicesPropose strategies to image and track molecules in cells and study their interactionsApply concepts of nanoparticles and self-assembly to design drug delivery methodologies Transversal skills Make an oral presentation.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, presentations by students and paper discussions Expected student activities Discussion of recent literature in the form of presentations Assessment methods Written exam Supervision Assistants Yes Others Moodle"}
{"courseId": "ME-459", "name": "Thermal power cycles and heat pump systems", "description": "This lecture aims at studying Energy (economics and environment: general knowledge), thermal power plant cycles and equipment, nuclear power plants and heat pumping technologies. Content Energy, Economics and Environment: general knowledge\u00a0Thermal power plant cycles and equipment: Rankine, Brayton, supercritical, combined cycles, Cheng, Kalina, boilers (incl. fluidised bed), turbomachines, cooling towers, specific power plant applications (oil & natural gas, coal incl. IGCC, waste incineration,...)\u00a0Nuclear power plants: nuclear physics elements-fission-critical size of a reactor-fuel cycles-specifics of nuclear power plants (physics design, thermohydraulics of the core, control, main types of power plants, environmental aspects, safety\u00a0Heat pumping technologies: main families of technologies for heat pumping (compression, chemical, magnetic, thermoelectric), main compressor and expander technologies (volumetric, dynamic), working fluids and refrigerants incl. mixtures ( diagr de Merkel-Bosnjakovic) and the global environmental impact factors Keywords Power plant, heat pump, compressor, turbine Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Know the principles and limitations of the main energy conversion technologies, E7Understand the challenges related to energy: resources, energy services, economic and environmental impacts, E9Calculate fluid flows in energy conversion systems, compute pressure drops and heat losses and fluid - structure interactions, E10Calculate and design vo lumetric compressors and turbines, E14Analyse the energy and exergy efficiency of industrial energy systems, E23Explain and calculate the main emission sources of energy conversion processes, E25 Assessment methods Oral examination at the end of the course"}
{"courseId": "COM-102", "name": "Advanced information, computation, communication II", "description": "Text, sound, and images are examples of information sources stored in our computers and/or communicated over the Internet. How do we measure, compress, and protect the informatin they contain? Content I. How to measure information. Source and probability. Entropy per symbol. Source coding. \u00a0 II. Cryptography and information security. Modular arithmetic, modern algebra and number theory. The Chinese remainder theorem and RSA. \u00a0 III. Protecting information. A few finite fields. Linear speaces. Hamming distance. Linear codes. Reed-Solomon codes. Keywords Shannon's entropy Linear codes Reed-Solomon codes Number theory Asymmetric Cryptography, RSA Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Understand Shannon's entropyConstruct an optimal codeUnderstand elementary number theoryKnow what an abelian group isRecognize a hidden isomorphismKnow how RSA worksKnow a few linear codes on simple finite fields Transversal skills Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals. Teaching methods Ex cathedrra with exercises Expected student activities Homework (written and grades) ever week. Assessment methods Continuous evaluations 10% and final exam 90%"}
{"courseId": "ME-415", "name": "Methods for rapid production and development", "description": "The state of the art in the domain of additive production processes (the part is built by material addition without use of a shape tool) will be presented. The main application/benefits/shortcomings of the common additive processes as well as techological and economical issues will be discussed. Content The course will describe the technico-economical environmentof industry, that has led to the need for an improvement of performances.The methods and techniques allowing a reductionof the design, prototyping and industrialization phases will bepresented. We will then concentrate on the presentation of aparticular method known as selective laser sintering (SLS). Wewill discuss its principles and its main limitations. We will thenstudy the selective laser sintering process under two differentaspects. At first, it will be used as an example to illustratehow it is possible to produce a part with a generative processdirectly from a CAD file. We will introduce different notionslike CLI and SLI-files as well as filling strategies. Finally, wewill study the fundamental physical phenomena involved in theSLS process.The last point to be discussed will be the laser theory (wavelength, power, intensity, beam radius, pulse length, repetitionrate...). The laser is actually the energy source preferably usedin the most efficient rapid manufacturing techniques.In conclusion and after attending this course, the student will- understand the rapidity and flexibility requirements relatedto the design and production of a product,- know the main rapid prototyping and rapid manufacturingtechniques,- have a deep knowledge of a specific rapid tooling techniquecalled selective laser sintering. Keywords Production processes, prototyping methods, rapid productionmethods, additive processes. Learning Prerequisites Required courses None Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Select production methods and tools in function of the performance requirements and costs by taking into account the limits of processes, CP 11Select a material and treatments in function of its application, its performances and its adequacy to the manufacturing mode of the final product, CP 13Formulate the physical principals of manufacturing processes, CP 16Formulate the characteristics and limits of manufacturing processes, CP 17 Teaching methods Ex cathedra with examples Expected student activities Active participation to the ex-catrhedra teaching. Resolution of a collection of exercices. Presentation of a small student project. Assessment methods Oral and student project"}
{"courseId": "CS-305", "name": "Software engineering", "description": "Covers basic aspects of modern software development tools and practices: the foundation of software engineering, thinking about software, structuring it, modifying it, and improving it. Covers the software development process (incl. agile methods) and working as part of a team of developers. Content Object-oriented design and reasoning Design patterns Principles of building reliable and secure software Performance tuning Testing and debugging Code layout and style Development processes Software project management Tools for source code management and tools for writing and analyzing code Being a good software engineer entails a continuous learning process. Unlike math or physics, this field changes fast, thus making continuous and independent learning essential. This course prepares students to become lifelong auto-didacts that build upon the foundation of imutable principles governing good software engineering. Keywords software development, software engineering, software design, software development tools, development processes, agile merhods Learning Prerequisites Required courses This course builds on material taught in these courses, so you are required to have mastered their content: CS-107 Introduction to Programming CS-108 Practical of Object-Oriented Programming CS-210 Functional Programming CS-206 Parallelism and concurrency CS-207 System-oriented Programming Recommended courses The material in the following courses is helpful but not required: COM-208 Computer networks CS-208/209 Computer architecture Important concepts to start the course Object-oriented programming (e.g., in Java) Using version control systems (e.g., Git) Using modern development tools (e.g., IDE, Android emulator) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design software that is reliable, secure, user-friendly, performant, and safeImplement (in software) sophisticated designs and algorithmsSpecify requirements for software systemsDevelop code that is maintainableOrganize a team to execute a medium-sized software projectAssess / Evaluate design and implementation optionsChoose alternatives to optimize for an objective (e.g., performance) Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Manage priorities.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Resolve conflicts in ways that are productive for the task and the people concerned.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles. Teaching methods Combination of online and in-class lectures Recitations and lab sessions Homework exercises Course project Expected student activities Watch online lectures Attend and participate in lectures and recitations Read and understand assigned materials Complete programming assignments and attend lab sessions Work with team members to complete a substantial project Assessment methods Throughout the semester (contr\u00f4le continu). The final grade will be determined: 10% for 2 homework assignments done individually 50% for 1 team project 40% based on 2 exams (contr\u00f4le continu) and online quizzes Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes Others See http://sweng.epfl.ch/"}
{"courseId": "HUM-432(a)", "name": "How people learn I", "description": "The students will understand the factors which affect the learning of professionals (such as engineers or teachers). They will understand differences between learning during (a) initial training, (b) induction into the workplace, and (c) the on-going development of experienced professionals. Content Social and Cognitive Factors in Professional Learning General Aim: To enable participants to understand the ways in which professionals learn their profession, in the initial training stage, the induction into practice stage and the continuing professional development stage. General Description of Material:The ability for individuals and organisations to learn is often regarded as central to their survival and success in the contemporary world. But how do professionals (like teachers, or engineers) learn their profession? What are the differences between how we learn (a) in initial training, (b) during the transition into work and (c) when an experienced professional? Learning is partially a psychological concept, but professionals operate in social contexts and so an understanding of professional learning also draws on sociological research. Therefore understanding professional learning will involve a multi-disciplinary approach. Plan of the course:Through exploring a number of types of studies on different aspects of learning, participants will build an understanding of some different research approaches which are used in studying learning. Students will also participate in studies and experiments to give them concrete experiences both of research approaches and of adult learning in practice. Keywords Learning, Education, Social and Behavioural Science Research, Interdisciplinary Studies Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Define the concept of learning, highlighting a range of definitions and their implications for the study of learningDescribe the way in which information is processed and memories formed in humans, referring to Attention, Working Memory, Long Term Memory and related conceptsDescribe the role of individual differences (Intelligences, Personality, Approaches to Learning) in accounting for learningDescribe the role of motivation, emotion and emotional self-regulation in relation to learningDescribe the role of micro-social factors (interaction with teachers, peers and others) in accounting for learningIdentify examples of how macro social factors (social class, policy and institutional factors etc.) impact upon the learning of different social groupsApply this knowledge to understand real-life learning situationsApply research design principles to design a piece of survey or experimental researchIntegrate psychological and social perspectives in studying learningDesign a survey or an experiment to study learning Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Take account of the social and human dimensions of the engineering profession. Teaching methods First semester: lectures; labs;discussion of readings Expected student activities Attendance in lectures and participation in in-lecture discussions; Participation in research labs; Reading of assigned materials and discussion of readings; Communicating in oral or electronic form Assessment methods 20% In-term tests 80% Exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No Forum Yes Others Forum for discussion in Moodle Resources Bibliography - Bransford et al. (2000) How People Learn: Brain, Mind, Experience and School. Washington D.C.: National Academy Press. - Illeris, K. (2009) Contempory Theories of Learning; learning theorists ... in the own words. London: Routledge. - Jarvis, P. et al. (2003) The Theory and Practice of Learning, 2nd Edition. London: Routledge. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que How People Learn / BransfordContempory Theories of Learning / Illeris The Theory and Practice of Learning / Jarvis Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=13735"}
{"courseId": "MSE-204", "name": "Thermodynamics for materials science", "description": "This lecture establishes the basic concepts of thermodynamics and defines the main state functions. The concepts are then applied to the study of phase transformations and to establish the phase diagram of mixtures. Content 1. Reminder of basic thermodynamics. Introduction to state functions and fundamental equations. Chemical potential.2. Treatment of mixtures. Molar and partial molar variables.3. General treatment of chemical reactions. Reaction progress. Variables of reaction (enthalpy, entropy, free energy of reaction). Standard state. Heats of reaction and formation of chemical substances.4. Chemical reactions in the gaseous state. Law of mass action. Equilibrium constant. Kirchoff's rule. Van't Hoff's equation.5. Phase equilibiria of mixtures. Gibbs' rule of phases.6. Chemical reactions in solutions. Equilibrium constant. Effects of pressure and temperature. The case of corrosion and batteries.7. Ideal solutions. Chemical potential. Osmotic pressure, the case of membranes. Melting and boiling points. Eutectic point.8. Non-ideal solutions. Standard states. Chemical potentials. Activity coefficients. 9. Phase diagrams. Excess variables of mixing.10. Thermodynamic treatment of batteries and fuel cells.\u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Various courses of the Materials science and engineering section Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze a thermodynamics problemCompute the changes in entropy, enthalpy and Gibbs free energyConstruct a phase diagramInterpret the chemical potential Teaching methods Ex cathedra et exercises"}
{"courseId": "ME-251", "name": "Thermodynamics and energetics I", "description": "The course introduces the basic concepts of thermodynamics and heat transfer, and thermodynamic properties of matter and their calculation. The students will master the concepts of heat, mass, and momentum conservation, and apply these concepts to thermodynamic cylces and energy conversion systems. Content Generalities and fundamentals: Thermodynamic systems; Zero's Law; Energy and the First Law; Entropy and the 2nd Law; 3rd Law; Gibbs equations.Closed systems and basic relations: Fundamental equations for homogeneous closed systems; specific heats, mathematical relations between state functions and various factors.Open systems in steady-state: Elements of gas dynamics, nozzles, turbine and compressor efficiencies, etc.Thermodynamic properties of matter: State and state changes, kinetic gas theory, perfect gas and ideal gas; state equations (Van der Waals, Lee-Kesler, etc.), approximate relations for liquid and solids.Thermodynamic processes and diagrams: T-s, h-s, p-v diagrams.Exergy: definition, exergy balance.Elementary energy systems analysis applied to reversible cycles and of simple real cycles: Generalities; general properties of cycles; cycles with two thermal sources for engines and heat pumps. Keywords Thermodynamics, energy, matter, cycles Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Compute the thermodynamic properties of a fluid, E2Compute the main thermodynamic transformations of compressible and incompressible fluids, E4Formulate mass, energy, and momentum balances, E1Elaborate on limitations of the main energy conversion technologies, E7Distinguish the main thermodynamic cycles, E5Integrate the concepts of thermodynamic efficiency, E6 Transversal skills Respect relevant legal guidelines and ethical codes for the profession.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Take responsibility for environmental impacts of her/ his actions and decisions.Take responsibility for health and safety of self and others in a working context. Assessment methods Written exam at the end of the semester"}
{"courseId": "MGT-410", "name": "Applied corporate & industry analysis (MTE master only)", "description": "The intent of this project is to encourage interchange between students and their mentors. Each student, in consultation with her or his mentor, will choose a company that the student will analyze in context of its primary industry. The company may be that of the mentor, but is not required to be. Content This project has two major parts. The first part is an applied company and industry analysis of a firm as agreed upon by the student and her/his mentor. The format of the report is a detailed SWOTT (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, Threats, and (optionally) Trends) of the focal firm and its competitors in the context of the firm's identified industry. The identified industry need not correspond to the firm's overall classification nor its primary area of commerce; for example, an analysis of Nestl\u00e9 does not have to be in terms of the company as a whole, but may instead be at the business-unit level (i.e. chocolate, coffee products, nutritional products, etc.). The student is wholly responsible for the research content of the report; while the mentor may choose to contribute information, it is neither mandatory nor expected. The student is, however, expected to interview two credible sources of information on the focal firm and its industry. This could be a competitor, an industry supplier, or a regulator. The second part will be a series of skills-building seminars taking place throughout the semester. Three of these are basic sessions on writing academic and business reports. Since the final deliverables will be graded - in part - based upon the points discussed in this session, it is advisable to attend. Keywords SWOT Analysis Competitive Industry Analysis \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats in relation to its industry sectorSynthesize data from diverse sourcesAnalyze a company's resourcesReport results in a businesslike mannerConduct research about a company and its primary industryCompare a firm's activities and/or performance with that of its competitorsIntegrate primary and secondary data Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Respect the rules of the institution in which you are working.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingWrite a scientific or technical report. Expected student activities The student is expected to meet at least one time with her/his mentor in order to establish the focal company and its relevant industry sector. In the research undertaking, the student is expected to interview two persons either in the focal firm or in a firm operating in the relevant industry sector.\u00a0 The student will gather as much information on both focal firm and industry and perform a detailed SWOT analysis of the firm in context of its industry sector. The report is expected to be a minimum of 15 pages not including tables, figures, and references."}
{"courseId": "MICRO-611", "name": "Nanoscale MOSFETs and beyond CMOS devices", "description": "This course provides the last trends in nanoelectronics for scaling, better performances and lower energy per function. It covers fundamental phenomena of nanoscale devices, beyond CMOS steep slope switches, emerging architectures, non-volatile memories and energy efficient smart sensing. Content (1) Nanoscale CMOS technologies, technology boosters and potential showstoppers\u00a0(2) Phenomena specific to deep submicron devices:' non-stationary phenomena (velocity overshoot)' ballistic transport' quantum effects' atomic scale parameter fluctuation (fluctuation of number of dopants, interface roughness)\u00a0(3) Emerging multi-gate device architectures: Double-gate MOS transistor -DGMOS, nanowire gate-all-around transistor, vertical MOS transistors, 3D stacked multigate nanowire transistors\u00a0(4) Single Electronics : principle, technology, performance metrics, hybrid architectures\u00a0(5) Beyond CMOS small swing switches for low standby power integrated circuits: tunnel FETs, phase-change switches, nano-electro-mechanical devices\u00a0(6) Emerging non-volatile memories: phase change memory, spin based memories, ferroelectric memory, polymer memory\u00a0(7) Carbon electronics: carbon nanotubes and graphene as new material options for functional diversification.\u00a0(8) Energy efficient smart sensing and computing for Internet-of-Things (IoT) with emphasis on wearable technology and its perspectives Keywords Nanoscale MOSFET, beyond CMOS device, energy efficient devices, emerging memories, energy efficient computing and sensing for IoT"}
{"courseId": "ChE-603", "name": "Electrochemical Thermodynamics and Kinetics of Metals and Semiconductors for Energy Conversion", "description": "The course presents, with emphasis to fundamental physicochemical principles, the basic principles of electrochemical thermodynamics and physical and chemical kinetics as applied to electrochemical conversion systems: batteries, fuel and biofuel cells, electrolysers and photoelectrochemical cells. Content Summary of the principles of chemical and electrochemical thermodynamics of relevance to electrochemical energetics. Outline of basic concepts of solid-state physics of metals and semiconductors. Thermodynamics of the metal-electrolyte and semiconductor-electrolyte interface on the basis of the electrochemical potential concept. Absolute electrode potential, electrochemical vs. vacuum electrode potential scale for aqueous and nonaqueous electrolyte-based systems. Physical, chemical and electrochemical properties of aqueous, nonaqueous and solid electrolytes. Electrical conductivity and diffusion in electrolytes. Electrochemical kinetics and catalysis at metal and semiconductor electrodes, complex multi-step electrode reactions, adsorption effects. Comparative description of electrochemical and photoelectrochemical systems: primary and secondary batteries, fuel and biofuel (enzymatic and microbial) cells, water electrolysers, electrochemical photovoltaic (electricity-producing) cells. photoelectrosynthetic cells (including e.g. photoelectrochemical water splitting and electrochemical carbon dioxide reduction), photocatalytic cells, including electrochemical fuel and biofuel cells. Application of electrochemical principles to microdispersed photocatalytic systems for energy conversion. \u00a0 Basic references J.O'M. Bockris and A.K.N. Reddy, Modern Electrochemistry, Second Edition, Plenum, Vol. 1 (1998), Vol 2A (2000, with M. Gamboa-Aldeco) and Vol. 2B (2000). J. Besson, Pr\u00e9cis de Thermodynamique et Cin\u00e9tique \u00c9lectrochimiques, Ellipses, 1998. C. Lefrou, P. Fabry and J.C. Poignet, (a) Electrochemistry: The Basics, With Examples, Springer, 2012; (b) Electrochimie Concepts fondamentaux illustr\u00e9s (in French), EDP Sciences, 2013. V.S. Bagotsky, Fundamentals of Electrochemistry, Second Edition, Wiley, 2006. V.S. Bagotsky, A.M. Skundin and Y. M. Volfkovich, Electrochemical Power Sources: Batteries, Fuel Cells and Supercapacitors, Wiley, 2015. V.S. Bagotsky, Fuel Cells, Problems and Solutions, Second Edition, Wiley, 2012. Y.V. Pleskov and Y.Y. Gurevich, Semiconductor Photoelectrochemistry, Plenum, 1983. S.R. Morrison, Electrochemistry of Semiconductor and Oxidized Metal Electrodes, Plenum, 1980. \u00a0 Note Next session Spring semester 2017 (Mo Fri)"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-631", "name": "Fundamentals of superresolution optical microscopy and Scanning Probe Microscopy", "description": "The course starts from general discussion of the microscopy spatial resolution problem and different proposals to beat classical criteria in the field. Afterwards, modern scanning probe microscopy methods are discussed. Content 1. Spatial resolution of optical far-field microscopy. Light diffraction and Abbe criterion. Attempts to beat Abbe criterion in the frame of far-field optics: engineering of a pupil function, immersion microscopy, 4pi-microscopy, confocal microscopy and their limitations. \u00a02. Ultramicroscopy: how to distinguish blue from red (not to mix this problem with the real optical resolution problem!). Its relation with Abbe criterion and modern implementation: Photoactivated Localization Microscopy (PALM), Stochastic Optical Reconstruction Microscopy (STORM). \u00a0Stimulation Emission Depletion (STED). Two-photon microscopy and SIM (structured-illumination microscopy).\u00a03. Near-field optical microscopy and its modifications (aperture and apertureless approaches). General concept of Scanning Probe Microscopy, piezoelectric scanners. Peculiarities of scanning for SNOM (connection between fiber probe and tuning fork, shear force).\u00a04. Scanning Tunneling Microscopy. Tunneling phenomenon, tunneling in 1D and 2D/3D cases. Field Electron/Ion Emission Microscopy.\u00a05-6. Atomic Force microscopy and its modifications. AFM cantilevers, angular detection methods and their sensitivity. Contact and non-contact imaging modes. How to pass from 3D dithered beam to simple 1D oscillator when discussing AFM results.\u00a07. Single molecule force spectroscopy. Bell-Evans model of the bond breaking under the action of a force. Parallel bonds and bonds in series. Keywords far field and near-field microscopy, scanning probe microscopy, superresolution, force spectroscopy Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course The course is of an introductory character (actually almost each topic here deserves its own course) so no special knowledge are presupposed from students, just a course of general physics at the level of Physics Department."}
{"courseId": "BIO-449", "name": "Understanding Statistics and Experimental Design", "description": "This course is neither an introduction to the mathematics of statistics nor an introduction to a statistics program such as R. The aim of the course is to understand statistics from its experimental design and to avoid common pitfalls of statistical reasoning. There is space to discuss ongoing work. Content \u00a0 Sensitivity and Bias Statistical Power Bayes Theorem and Odds Ratio What the t-test measures Classical statistical tests Experimental design Fraud and misconduct of statistics"}
{"courseId": "BIO-487", "name": "Scientific project design in translational neurosciences", "description": "The goal of this course is to instruct the student how fundamental scientific knowledge, acquired through the study of fundamental disciplines, including biochemistry, genetics, pharmacology, physiology, genomics, cell and molecular biology can be applied for drug discovery and development. Content We will illustrate how basic scientific knowledge translates into medical advances and serves as the stepping stone to identify and validate new disease targets, to develop drugs, and to improve diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of diseases of the nervous system. We will show these principles by examples, which will focus on conditions of the nervous system, such as neurodegenerative disorders, cognitive enhancement, taste perception but also calorie detection and reward representation in the brain. Content: General principles of drug development [target identification, target validation, screening, hit to lead optimization, process research (optimization of the chemical synthesis for the pilot plant and factory), efficacy, toxicity / safety, preclinical & clinical development Development and use of animal models in biomedical research Pathophysiology and therapeutic strategies for disorders of energy balance [fasting-feeding cycles, nutrition, Perception Physiology, hormonal control of energy homeostasis, obesity, anorexia, prevention and treatments] Pathophysiology and therapeutic strategies for treating neurodegenerative disease, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease [development and insights from genetic and toxin-based animal models, genetic basis of disease, disease pathways and processes, neuropathology, clinical diagnosis, surgical and drug treatments, neuroimaging, biomarker discovery, target validation] The business environment [markets, patients/consumers, competitors] Project management [sponsors, stake-holders and their expectations, checkpoints, milestones, execution] Commercialization [business plan, regulatory, product launch, Intellectual property] Case studies \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bachelor in Life Science Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Develop expertise in a specific area of researchAssess / Evaluate therapeutic strategies for treating neurodegenerative diseaseFormulate General principles of drug developmentDemonstrate written and oral communication skills Transversal skills Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art.Make an oral presentation.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources. Teaching methods After ex-cathedra introduction sessions, the teaching proceeds with weekly sessions of office hours and group work in close collaboration with the teachers. Assessment methods - Written project- Oral defense of the project during the semester Resources Bibliography Corey E.J., Czako B, Kurti L \"Molecules and Medicines\" (2007) Kenakin T.P. \"A pharmacology primer, theory, applications and methods\" (2006) En biblioth\u00e8que / in libraries :(cliquez sur le lien pour consulter les informations du r\u00e9seau de biblioth\u00e8que suisse / click on the link to consult information of the Swiss network of libraries) A pharmacology primer : theory, applications, and methods / Terry Kenakin, 2009(http://opac.nebis.ch/F?local_base=nebis&con_lng=FRE&func=find-b&find_code=020&request=978-0-12-374585-9) Molecules and medicine / E.J. Corey, B. Czak\u00c3\u00b3 and L. K\u00c3\u0152rti, 2007(http://opac.nebis.ch/F?local_base=nebis&con_lng=FRE&func=find-b&find_code=020&request=978-0-470-22749-7) Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que A pharmacology primer, theory, applications and methods/ Kenakin Molecules and Medicines / Corey"}
{"courseId": "MSE-470(b)", "name": "Seminar series on advances in materials (spring)", "description": "A series of seminars on selected current and emerging topics in Materials will be presented by experts. Content 14 seminars will take place according to the programme indicated at the following link : http://sti.epfl.ch/page-77010-fr.html Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Interpret topics of recent research in materials science and engineering Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods The course \"Seminar series\" will consist of 12-14 scientific talks per semester. Attendance of all of these talks is strongly recommended. The students are expected to take their own notes and do literature research concerning the background of the talks (presentation slides will not be distributed). Expected student activities Participation in class Bibliographic research"}
{"courseId": "COM-415", "name": "Audio signal processing and virtual acoustics", "description": "The objective of the course is to introduce theory, methods, and basic psychoacoustics that is needed to understand state-of-the-art techniques used in pro audio and consumer audio, including microphones, surround sound, auralization, virtual acoustics, mixing, and audio coding. Content Acoustics and audio is covered and the manipulation and processing of audio signals. It is shown how Fourier analysis of the soundfield yields to the representation of a soundfield with plane waves. These and other acoustic insights are used to explain microphone techniques and reproduction of the soundfield. Spatial hearing is covered in detail and used to motivate stereo and surround mixing and audio playback. In addition, insights on the principles of auralization and virtual acoustics are given, and the simulation of sound propagation in rooms will be further discussed. The short-time Fourier transform is introduced as a tool for flexible manipulation of audio signals, suchs as filtering, delaying and other spectral modification. Matrix surround, audio coding, and beamforming are also treated. Keywords acoustics, virtual acoustics, microphones, surround sound, matrix surround, audio coding, audio processing, 3d sound reproduction, spatialization, psychoacoustics, human hearing, binaural hearing, dummy head recordings, wave propagation, simulation techniques, geometrical acoustics, auralization, sonification, audio, signal processing Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Fourier transform, signal processing basics (sampling, filtering, discrete Fourier transform). Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Apply Basics of Acoustics, Signal Processing, Reproduction, Simulation TechniquesImplement Basics of Audio Signal Processing, Filtering, Multi-Channel Loudspeaker SetupsOperate Room acoustics simulation programs Teaching methods Class exercise sessions Assessment methods Midterm exam Final exam"}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-530", "name": "Slope stability", "description": "The course aims at providing future civil engineers with a comprehensive view on soil slope stability. It addresses landslide types and mass movement classification; slope failure mechanisms and methods for slope stability analysis are discussed; remedial measures and risk analysis are presented. Content Mass movement classification and landslide activity \u00a0 Methods of slope stability analysis -\u00a0Limit equilibrium analysis -\u00a0Infinite slope analysis -\u00a0Methods for circular and non-circular slip surface -\u00a0Seismic slope stability \u00a0 Methods for modelling soil mass movements -\u00a0Coupled and un-coupled numerical analyses \u00a0 The role of pore water pressure -\u00a0Characterization of the pore water pressures in slopes -\u00a0Drained and undrained conditions -\u00a0Delayed failure -\u00a0Rapid drawdown -\u00a0Unsaturated conditions \u00a0 Failure mechanisms and choice of geotechnical parameters -\u00a0Shear strength of soils in unsaturated conditions -\u00a0Progressive failure \u00a0 Landslide instrumentation -\u00a0Measurement of displacements -\u00a0Location of the slip surface -\u00a0Measure of pore water pressures \u00a0 Methods for slope stabilisation -\u00a0Slope geometry modification and loads -\u00a0Drainage systems -\u00a0Retaining structures \u00a0 Basics of risk analysis and early warning systems \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Soil mechanics and groundwater seepage \u00a0 Recommended courses Geomechanics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Recognize type and occurrence of natural and man-made slope movementsAssess / Evaluate the key geotechnical parameters that govern slope stabilityUse methods for slope stability assessment, modelling of slope movement and back-analysis of failed slopesJudge capabilities and limitations of slope stability analysis softwareDecide the fundamental steps for landslide investigations and select remedial measuresDiscuss risk analysis and early warning systems Transversal skills Take responsibility for environmental impacts of her/ his actions and decisions.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsSet objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, exercises, case study analysis"}
{"courseId": "MGT-635", "name": "Economics of Innovation and Technological Change", "description": "This course will be organised again at EPFL in May 2017. Content DTU, EPFL, TU/e and TUM have recently joined forces in a new strategic alliance, named Euro Tech, with the goal to further collaboration in leading research and educational programs. Considering that this institutional framework explicitly encourages the development of Euro Tech communities in several academic disciplines, Professors in innovation and entrepreneurship from the four schools have decided to partake in a comprehensive collaboration. This alliance will serve as the basis for further growth and encourage entrepreneurship & innovation research as a core scholarly discipline in European (technical) universities. In the spirit of this initiative, a doctoral course on 'Economics of Innovation and Technological Change' has been designed by Professors of the four universities under the coordination of Pr. Dominique Foray (EPFL)\u00a0 and will be offered to the students of Copenhagen, Eindhoven, Lausanne and M\u00fcnich during the 2017 Spring Semester. This one week block course will alternate formal lectures on various topics in the economics of innovation, interactive sessions, students'presentation as well as individual coaching. Expected student activities This one week block course will alternate formal lectures on various topics in the economics of innovation, interactive sessions, students'presentation as well as individual coaching. Students after following this program will be able to : understand better what makes for a good research question anddevelop the ability to identify promising research questions for own thesis and further projects in the field of economics and management of innovation; elaborate a solid research design as relating in a consistent way research question, methods and data production and use; master the state of the art both in the general field of the economics and management of innovation and in the more specialized sub-field corresponding to own research interest (economics of science, industry dynamics, geography and space, appropriability issue and open innovation, effects of innovation on skills/employment/productivity/firm's growth, innovation policy, specific technology analysis, and so on)"}
{"courseId": "MATH-407", "name": "Elliptic PDE's", "description": "This is an introductory course on \"Linear Elliptic Partial Differential Equations\". Content 1. Harmonic functions. Mean value properties. Fundamental solutions. Green's identities. Maximum principles. Caccioppoli's inequality. 2. Sobolev spaces.\u00a0Solobev's inequality, Poincare's inequality, Reillich-Kondrachov's inequality. Trace theorems. 3. Dirichlet problems. Existence and uniqueness of weak solutions. Lax-Milgram's theorem and compactness arguments. Maximum's principle. A connection with variational method. 4. Neumann problems. Existence and uniqueness of weak solutions. Lax-Milgram's theorem and comptactness arguments. A connection with variational method. 5. Mixed boundary problems. An example. 6. Separation of variables. Solving Laplace's equations in a ball and in a circular. Three spheres inequality. 7. Laplace equation in unbounded domains. \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses The students are strongly recommended to have sufficiently knowledge on real analysis, theory of integrations. Having taken a functional analysis course will be an advantage. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Apply basic theory to solve several problems in sciencesAnalyze partial differential equations"}
{"courseId": "ME-417", "name": "Computer-aided engineering", "description": "The course covers: Product life cycle, CAD systems, modelling, Data-structures and basic operations, CAD system operations, 2D interface, Data exchange, Geometry curves, Geometry of surfaces, Non-manifold and special modelling, Features, process planning, manufacturing, Assemblies Graphics Content The goal of this course is to expose the student to the basic computer-aided modelling concept, methodologies and their application in the area of CAD (computer-aided design). Feature-based modelling techniques will be presented together with their importance in the interactive design process and for manufacturing. Furthermore, students will practice their knowledge with modern interactive CAD software,\u00a0- Data structures- Modelling operations- Non-manifold topology- Fundamentals of feature-based modelling- CAD/CAM data exchange- Mechanical assembly modelling Keywords CAE, boundary-representation modelling, features, data exchange Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Geometry Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose suitable methods and tools for the development, the modelling and simulation, the analysis and sol ution selection of an engineering problem in the mechanical engineering domain (product design, manufacturing process and system production ), CP1Formulate the modelling hypotheses to tackle a problem and choose the respective solution methods and tools considering the available resources, CP6Realize, analyse and discuss a model: 3D complex geometries and assemblies, static, kinematic, dynamic, thermal and ultimate behaviour, life - cycle and costs of a system (product, manufacturing process o r production system), CP8Evaluate the methodological choices for the buil ding of a model and validate the results with respect to the analysis and modelling objectives, CP9 Teaching methods Course, exercises, tasks and project Assessment methods Oral examination Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No Forum No"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-445", "name": "Nuclear fusion and plasma physics", "description": "The goal of the course is to provide the physics and technology basis for controlled fusion research, from the main elements of plasma physics to the reactor concepts. Content 1) Basics of thermonuclear fusion2) The plasma state and its collective effects3) Charged particle motion and collisional effects4) Fluid description of a plasma5) Plasma equilibrium and stability6) Magnetic confinement: Tokamak and Stellarator7) Waves in plasma8) Wave-particle interactions 9) Heating and non inductive current drive by radio frequency waves10) Heating and non inductive current drive by neutral particle beams11) Material science and technology: Low and high Temperature superconductor - Properties of material under irradiation 12) Some nuclear aspects of a fusion reactor: Tritium production13) Licensing a fusion reactor: safety, nuclear waste 14) Inertial confinement\u00a0\u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basicknowledge of electricity and magnetism, and of simple concepts of fluids Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design the main elements of a fusion reactorIdentify the main physics challenges on the way to fusionIdentify the main technological challenges of fusion Teaching methods Ex cathedra and in-class exercises Assessment methods oral examen (100%)"}
{"courseId": "EE-491(c)", "name": "Project in micro and nanoelectronics", "description": "The student applies the acquired skills to an academic or industrial projects. Content During this project the students will employ the acquired skills to solve a practical problem. The themes of these projects are chosen amongst the research and development activities of one of the laboratories affiliated to the Electrical and Electronic Engineering Section. The lists of projects are available on the Web site of each of the laboratories of the Section of Electrical and Electronic Engineering. In the framework of this project it is possible to participate in an interdisciplinary project with studets from other sections Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Outcomes depending on the project topic Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Write a scientific or technical report.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art.Collect data.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback. Teaching methods Project-based teaching"}
{"courseId": "ENV-200", "name": "Environmental chemistry", "description": "This course provides students with an overview over the basics of environmental chemistry. This includes the chemistry of natural systems, as well as the fate of anthropogenic chemicals in natural systems. It enables students to apply general chemical concepts to natural systems. Content Introduction to environmental chemistry Chemical composition of natural water Biogeochemical cycles of organic and inorganic pollutants Fate and transformation of organic and inorganic pollutants Impact of pollutants on ecosystems Engineering applications of environmental chemistry Case studies Keywords carbonate system, alkalinity, partitioning, photochemisty, redox, speciation Learning Prerequisites Required courses General chemistry Recommended courses Biochemistry Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Estimate pH of natural watersCompute alkalinity in natural and engineered systemsAnalyze partitioning behavior of organic pollutantsCompute a pollutant's photolysis kineticsFormulate chemical transformation kineticsAnalyze metal speciationFormulate redox reactions for inorganic species Teaching methods Lecture ex cathedra, exercises Expected student activities participation in homework sessions Assessment methods 33 % midterm exam during the semester, 67 % exam during exam session Resources Bibliography Benjamin: Water Chemistry, McGraw Hill, 2002 Sigg, Behra, Stumm : Chimie des milieux aquatiques, Dunod, 2006 Bliefert, Perraud: Chimie de l'environnement, Boeck ed., 2004; Schwarzenbach, Gschwend, Imboden : Environmental Organic Chemistry, 2nd Edition, Wiley, 2003. \u00a0 Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Environmental Organic Chemistry / SchwarzenbachChimie des milieux aquatiques / SiggChimie de l'environnement / BliefertWater Chemistry / Benjamin Notes/Handbook provided weekly via moodle Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=2521"}
{"courseId": "EE-470", "name": "Power systems dynamics", "description": "This course focuses on the dynamic behavior of a power system. It presents the basic definitions, concepts and models for angular stability analysis with reference to transient stability, steady state stability and long term stability.Fundamentals related to voltage stability are introduced as well. Content Role of simulation for power systems operation and planningLoad-flow in steady-state balanced three-phase systems: Gauss-Seidel method. Newton-Raphson method. Active-reactive decoupling. Linearized method (DC flow). Stability and dynamic behavior: Definitions: Steady-state, transient and long-term stability. General model of the power system. Direct methods. Time domain methods: partitioned approach, simultaneous approach, numerical integration methods. Steady state stability and transient stability: Choice of generator and load models. Classical model of stability. Multi-machines stability. Application: case of one-machine connected to an infinite bus (equal-area criterion). Eigenvalues and eigenvectors applications. Long-term stability: Simulation of the dynamic behavior of the electric power system at the scale of minutes or several minutes after a disturbance. Modeling: primary and secondary frequency control, generators and loads. Design and operation of simulation software: Case studies using an industrial simulation software (Eurostag). Keywords Load-Flow calculation, steady state - transient - long term stability, direct/time domaine methods, classical model, equal area criterion, primary/secondary frequency control, eigenvalues and eigenvectors. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Electric power systems, Electromecanics, Energy conversion Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Formulate appropriate simulation model according to the nature of the stability under studyChoose appropriate models of the power system components according to the nature of the stability under studyChoose appropriate numerical methodsInterpret the simulation results Teaching methods Ex cathedra lectures with exercices and case studies Expected student activities attendance at the lectures; completing exercices Assessment methods Continuous control"}
{"courseId": "MSE-485", "name": "Tribology", "description": "This introductory course in tribology (science of friction, lubrication and wear) has specific goals : to present the basic principles of tribology, to develop the attitude to analyse tribological and to illustrate correlations between materials and tribological properties. Content BASIC PRINCIPLES Elastic/plastic contacts, friction, lubrication, deformation and fracture in contacts, wear, third body and tribological flow, experimental techniques. MATERIALS AND CONTACTS Metals and alloys, ceramics, coatings, polymers and composites. SURFACE CHEMISTRY AND TRIBOLOGY Reaction layers, tribocorrosion, boundary lubricated wear. APPLICATIONS EXAMPLES Biomedical implants, micro-technology. Keywords Wear, friction, lubrication, Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Introduction \u00e0 la science des mat\u00e9riaux Important concepts to start the course Basics of mechanics (forces, work, energy), Basics of material science (polymers, ceramics, metals) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe tribological systems.Describe basic phenomena related to friction, wear and lubrication.Link tribological behaviour to material and system parameters.Analyze tribological systems in terms of structure and material properties.Assess / Evaluate possible relationships between tribological response and involved mechanisms.Critique and assess literature published on the subject.Work out / Determine possible ways to improve the tribological perfomance of systems.Identify acting main wear mechanisms. Transversal skills Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Negotiate effectively within the group.Summarize an article or a technical report.Make an oral presentation.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Ex cathedra with exercises and case studies2 presentations by external speakers (in French) Expected student activities Participation in the course, resolution of excercises, practical case studies. Assessment methods Critical analysis of an article published in a tribology journal and presentation to the other students. Questions by students to the presenters will be evaluated. Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No Others Teacher availble for meetings (by prior arrangement through email). Resources Bibliography Book list\u00a0 and general information available at the web site indicated below. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Analyse et technologie des surfaces: couches minces et tribologie, Trait\u00e9 des mat\u00e9riaux 4 / MathieuTribology: Friction and Wear of Engineering materials / HutchingsMat\u00e9riaux et contacts : une approche tribologique / ZambelliEngineering Tribology / WilliamsTribology, Principles and Design Applications / ArnellCorrosion et chimie de surfaces des m\u00e9taux / Landolt Notes/Handbook Slides copies and general information available at the web site indicated below. Websites http://tic.epfl.ch/tribology"}
{"courseId": "MATH-483", "name": "G\u00f6del and recursivity", "description": "G\u00f6del incompleteness theorems and mathematical foundations of computer science Content G\u00f6del's theorems:Peano and Robinson Arithmetics. Representable functions. Arithmetic of syntax. Incompleteness, and undecidability theorems.\u00a0Recursivity : Turing Machines and variants. The Church-Turing Thesis. Universal Turing Machine. Undecidable problems (the halting and the Post-Correspondance problems). Reducibility. The arithmetical hierarchy. Relations to Turing machines. Turing degrees. Keywords G\u00f6del, incompleteness theorems, Peano arithmetic, Robinson arithmetic, decidability, recursively enumarable, arithmetical hierarchy, Turing machine, Turing degrees, jump operator, primitive recursive functions, recursive functions, automata, pushdown automata, regular languages, context-free languages, recursive languages, halting problem, universal Turing machine, Church thesis. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Mathematical logic (or equivalent). A good understanding of 1st order logic is required - in particular the relation between syntax and semantics. Important concepts to start the course 1st order logic: syntax, semantics, proof theory, completeness theorem, compactness theorem, L\u00f6wenheim-Skolem theorem. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Estimate whether a given theory, function, language is recursive or noDecide the class that a language belongs to (regular, context-free, recursive,...)Elaborate an automatonDesign a Turing machineFormalize a proof in Peano arithmeticSketch the incompleteness theoremsPropose a non-standard modelArgue why Hilbert program failed Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture and exercises Assessment methods Written: 3 hours Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "MGT-408", "name": "Technology policy and the energy transition", "description": "This course involves the theoretical and empirical analysis of technology Policy as applied to the issue of energy transition. To address this so-called \"Grand Challenge\", the combination of market-based instruments with technology policy seems to be of critical importance. Content We present a general framework based on the notions of private and social returns of R&D and innovation\u00a0and market failures. We examine then the various types of interventions by the State both in\u00a0terms of environmental policy and technology policy\u00a0as well as the different types of errors that can be done. We clarify the opposition between horizontal and vertical policy and use smart specialisation as an example. We finally apply all these concepts to the problems of climate change and energy transition Keywords technology policy, private and social returns of R&D, market failures, vertical and horizontal policy, smart specialisation, market-based instruments, climate change Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Principles of Microeconomics (A. Mack) Important concepts to start the course Knowledge externalities Market failures Environmental externalities Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze market failures situationsArgue cases of economic policyCompare national policiesAssess / Evaluate the efficeincy of policy solutions Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Make an oral presentation.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources. Teaching methods Formal teaching, team work Expected student activities Preparation of oral presentation, writing of a document Assessment methods Continuous assessment combining: 25% class participation75% final project and presentation during the semester"}
{"courseId": "MSE-627", "name": "X-Ray Analysis for thin films", "description": "Intro into the relation between physical and structural properties; introduction into different X-Ray techniques; examples of successful technological transfer using X-Ray techniques; Structural properties; coherent and non coherent scattering; high resolution X-Ray techniques; stress; coatings."}
{"courseId": "ENV-614", "name": "Fourier analysis and boundary value problems", "description": "Learning Fourier Series and Boundary Value Problems with a view to a variety of science and engineering problems. Learn the use of special functions like Bessel functions and applications. Introduce the doctoral students to general Sturm-Liouville problems and applications. Content Textbook: J.W. Brown, R.V. Churchill, Fourier Series and Boundary Value Problems, McGraw Hill, 7th ed, 2008\u00a0Fourier Series; Convergence of Fourier Series; Partial Differential Equations of Physics; The Fourier Method; Boundary Value Problems; Fourier Integrals and applications; Orthonormal sets; Sturm-Liouville problems and applications; Bessel functions and applications."}
{"courseId": "MSE-211", "name": "Organic chemistry", "description": "This course provides a basic foundation in organic chemistry and polymer chemistry, including chemical nomenclature of organic compounds and polymers, an understanding of chemical structures, chemical reaction mechanisms, as well as methods of organic and polymer synthesis. Content Part I: Organic Chemistry1. The nature of the covalent bond2. Molecular structure3. Nomenclature of organic compounds4. Mechanisms of organic reactions5. Selected classes of organic compoundsPart II: Macromolecular Chemistry1. Basics of macromolecular chemistry and polymerscience2. Step-growth polymerizations3. Chain-growth polymerizations4. Living and controlled polymerizations5. Selected classes of polymers Keywords covalent bond, organic compounds, nomenclature, isomerism, substitution reactions, addition reactions, elimination reactions, molecular weight, thermoplasts, elastomers, fibers, polycondensation reactions, polyaddition reactions, chain polymerization reactions, living polymerizations, polyolefins, polymethacrylates,polyesters, polyamides, polycarbonates, polyurethanes Learning Prerequisites Required courses General Chemistry Recommended courses General Chemistry Important concepts to start the course A notion of atoms and moleculesA notion of basic thermodynamics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the formation of covalent bonds, molecular structures (organic compounds, polymers)Draw molecular orbital diagrams, molecular structures (organic compounds, polymers)Compare covalent bonds, molecular structures, isomersFormulate reactions (organic synthesis, polymers)Decide between reaction mechanisms (organic synthesis, polymerisations)Derive compound names from molecular structures and vice veraDiscriminate reaction mechanisms (organic synthesis, polymers)Propose polymerization methods Transversal skills Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods ex cathedra, slides and blackboard, interactive exercises Expected student activities attendance to lecturesactive participation in lectures (questions, feedback)solving the exercise sheets (at home)active participation in exercises (demonstratingsolutions on blackboard)complementing course work with organic and polymerchemistry textbook (at home) Assessment methods Written examination"}
{"courseId": "CH-706", "name": "Density functional theory for chemistry students", "description": "Formal foundations of Hohenberg-Kohn-Sham density functional theory; The origin, advantages, and flaws of most commonly used approximations to the exchange-correlation functional;Main features of the computer implementations of the formalism used in chemistry;The state of development of theoretical Content 1) Historical introduction to density functional theory in chemistry and physics.2) Mathematical introduction to the concepts used in density functional theory (functional, functional derivative, extremum of a functional, constraints, Euler-Largange minimization).3) Thomas-Fermi model of the uniform electron gas.4) Basic theorems of density functional theory (Hohenberg-Kohn theorems).5) Kohn-Sham Equations.6) Local density approximation (LDA).7) Generalized gradient approximation (GGA).8) Adiabatic connection method (hybrid functionals).9) Numberical implementation of Kohn-Sham equations.10) Relativistic effects and density functional theory.11) Linear-response density functional theory (excited states).12) Formal extensions: optimized effective potential, self-interaction correction, meta-GGA13) Conceptual DFT: reactivity indices.14) Some illustrative applications of Kohn-Sham equations. Note Next session Spring 2018"}
{"courseId": "EE-712", "name": "Advanced microwaves for wireless communications", "description": "This course is intended for doctoral students using microwaves and microwave equipment during their PhD. It starts with a reminder on microwave circuit theory and continues with the main issues linked to microwaves measurement and equipment. The course includes five half days of labs. Content \u00a0 A short summary on Microwave Network Analysis Microwave measurement techniques Terminal antenna design and optimization Selected examples \u00a0 Keywords Microwaves, distributed circuits, filter design, measurement. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Microwaves, Electromagnetism, Antennas."}
{"courseId": "MGT-483", "name": "Optimal decision making", "description": "This course introduces the theory and applications of optimization. We develop tools and concepts of optimization and decision analysis that enable managers in manufacturing, service operations, marketing, transportation and finance to transform data into insights for making better decisions. Content Fundamental techniques covered in this course include linear, discrete and nonlinear optimization. The underlying theory is motivated through concrete examples across several application areas such as project management, portfolio selection, production planning, revenue management, transportation, etc. We will use MATLAB to model and solve practical decision problems. The following topics will tentatively be covered in the course: \u00a0 Part I: Linear Optimization Applications The Simplex Method Duality Large-Scale Optimization \u00a0 Part II: Discrete Optimization Applications Branch & Bound and Cutting Planes Lagrangian Methods (if time) \u00a0 Part III: Nonlinear Optimization Applications Optimality Conditions Local Optimization '' Keywords Linear optimization, discrete optimization, nonlinear optimization \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course A good background in linear algebra and calculus is required. Basic knowledge of probability theory is useful but not necessary. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Recognize the power of using optimization methods and models in their careersCompare and appraise the basic theories that underlie current thinking in optimizationUse these theories to structure practical decision-making situationsApply the fundamental quantitative methods and tools used in operations researchFormulate managerial decision problems as optimization modelsSolve linear, nonlinear and discrete optimization models using MATLABModel uncertainty in linear optimization using techniques from stochastic programming Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsAssess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Classical formal teaching interlaced with practical exercices Assessment methods 70% final exam 30% small group project Exams are closed book and on paper (no use of computer) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "EE-433", "name": "Hardware systems modeling II", "description": "Creation and use of models of analog and mixed-signal hardware systems at various levels of abstraction. Use of the VHDL-AMS hardware description language. Content Introduction Models in electronic mixed-signal design automation. Mixed-signal hardware description languages. Analog and mixed-signal simulation techniques. The VHDL-AMS language VHDL-AMS characteristics (language, design flow, modeling guidelines). VHDL-AMS model organization. Behavioural and structural VHDL-AMS modeling. Modeling of analog and RF components Electrical primitives. Operational amplifier, OTA. Filters. RF building blocks. Use of discrete-event modeling techniques. Testbenches and verification techniques. Modeling of mixed-signal components A/D and D/A interfaces. A/D and D/A converters. Testbenches and verification techniques. Keywords Mixed-signal system, continuous-time model, behavioral modeling, VHDL-AMS. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Hardware systems modeling I (EE-432). Recommended courses Digital systems design (EE-334). Important concepts to start the course VHDL modeling. Circuits and systems. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Exploit mixed-signal modeling techniques.Develop reusable models at various levels of abstraction.Produce quality and reusable VHDL-AMS models. Teaching methods Lecture with integrated exercises. Expected student activities Attending lectures. Completing exercises. Use of state-of-the-art electronic design automation (EDA) tools. Assessment methods Homework exercises (10%). Midterm examination (40%). Final examination (50%). Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes Others Individual feedback comments on delivered work in the Moodle page of the course."}
{"courseId": "PHYS-726", "name": "Introduction to Frustrated Magnetism", "description": "To provide an introduction to all aspects of the rapidly evolving field of frustrated magnetism: 1) New paradigms: spin liquids, spin ice, topological order,\u00e2\u0080\u0160 2) Basic models and methods 3) Experimental realizations Content 1) Introduction: definition and overview of frustration in magnetism2) Basic models3) Classical frustrated magnets: ground state degeneracy and ground state correlations4) Order by disorder: ordering by thermal or quantum fluctuations5) Spontaneous breaking of translational symmetry: valence-bond solids, magnetization plateaux 6) Broken SU(2) symmetry without magnetic order: nematic order7) Spin liquids: Resonating-Valence Bond liquids, algebraic order, topological order8) Conclusion: open issues and perpectives"}
{"courseId": "COM-611", "name": "Quantum Information Theory and Computation", "description": "Today one is able to manipulate matter at the nanoscale were quantum behavior becomes important and possibly information processing will have to take into account laws of quantum physics. We introduce concepts developed in the last 25 years to take advantage of quantum resources. Content Part I. A primer on Quantum Mechanics and Qubits.Quantum bits.Interference experiments with photon polarisation, spin; Superposition principle; Measurement postulate;Basic principles of quantum mechanics in finite Hilbert spaces.Many Qubit states.Entanglement; Bell inequalities and EPR paradox; No cloning; Quantum key distribution; Quantum teleportation. Part II. Quantum Information Theory.Von Neumann Entropy and Mutual Information.Density matrix and mixed states; Von Neumann entropy; Subadditivity; Araki-Lieb lower bound; Mutual information.Quantum data compression.Schumacher compression; Compression of mixed states and Holevo bound.Noisy Quantum Channels.Channel models; Capacity results. Part III. Quantum Computation.Basic ideas behind the Quantum Computer.Feynman and Deutsch point of view; Unitary evolution and quantum parallelism; Quantum circuits; Universal elementary gates; Quantum Fourier transform and its circuit.Quantum Algorithms.Deutsch-Josza problem; Grover search algorithm; Shor algorithm for the period of a function; Application to factoring and cryptography.Quantum Error Correcting Codes (if time permits) Learning Prerequisites Required courses Linear algebra. Recommended courses Linear Algebra and Basic Information Theory. No prerequisite in quantum mechanics will be needed. Important concepts to start the course Matrix and vector calculus, inner product, complex numbers. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Master the basic principles of quantum computation and information theory.Be able to state the main differences between classical and quantum concepts related to computation, information and correlations . Teaching methods Ex-Cathedra. Homeworks. Expected student activities Participation in class and homeworks. Assessment methods Homeworks oral exam"}
{"courseId": "FIN-506", "name": "Investing: a Guide to Doing the Right Thing", "description": "What makes a successful investor? What are the key differences between the theory of investing (EMH, CAPM etc) and its practice? How can portfolio management strategies be made more responsible, more sustainable? We will share our concrete experience as investors and financial markets practitioners. Content This course will seek to show what the right way to invest is, both in terms of achieving long term financial success and in terms of deploying capital in a way that is beneficial for our society and our planet. We will draw lessons from the past financial crises and make frequent references to Behavioral Finance, exploring extensively the field of Sustainable and Responsible Investing. A typical course structure would be 1. Introduction to the range of asset classes, with a historical perspective. 2. Overview of the investment philosophies of the past 100 years (from Graham/Dodd to Risk Parity). 3. Investing in a security (equity); Case study. 4. Portfolio management, how to build long term value; Case Study. 5. Risk management; Case study. 6. Introduction to SRI (history, concept, players, values...). The SRI investment universe (across all asset classes: vehicles, markets, fiduciary duty). 7. Investment Strategies for an SRI investor. Impact investing (scope, nature, challenges, metrics). 8. Portfolio forensics (analysis, diagnosis and remedies). Keys for a successful and sustainable portfolio. Test. Course wrap-up. Keywords Portfolio Management, Risk Management, Value, Growth, Endowment Model, Risk Parity, Behavioural Finance,Valuation, Financial crisis, Derivatives, SRI, ESG, CSR, Sustainability, Responsibility, Ethics, Impact investing, Engagement. \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Introduction to Finance (FIN401 or MGT482), Investments (FIN405). Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the key concepts of portfolio managermentAssess / Evaluate investments and portfolios in terms of performance potential and risk levelDescribe the sustainable investing strategies and innovationsDesign successful and purposeful portfolios Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Make an oral presentation.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking"}
{"courseId": "BIO-212", "name": "Biological chemistry II (for SV)", "description": "This course covers the basic concepts of intermediary metabolism. Students are introduced to the various metabolic pathways that integrate the nutritional status to energy homeostasis and will get familiar with several medical applications based on these pathways. Content 1. Introduction and key concepts. 2. Bioenergetics and common biochemical reactions in metabolism. 3. Citric acid cycle and oxidative phosphorylation. 4. Glycolysis, gluconeogenesis and pentose phosphate pathway. 5. Glycogen metabolism. 6. Lipid metabolism.7. Amino acid metabolism.8. Regulation of energy metabolism Learning Prerequisites Required courses Organic chemistry, Biological Chemistry I, Biology I, II Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Define biochemical conceptsGive an example of a biochemically relevant mechanismList enzymes in pathwayRecognize chemical structure, functional groupCompare activity during different nutritional statesWork out / Determine ATP production from different fuel moleculesAssess / Evaluate the impact of an enzymatic inhibitorIntegrate different metabolic pathways Transversal skills Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Ex cathedra & exercises Assessment methods written exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Bibliography Lehninger - Principles of Biochemistry by David L. Nelson, Michael M. Cox, Fifth Edition Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Lehninger Principles of Biochemistry / Nelson"}
{"courseId": "AR-402(c)", "name": "Th\u00e9orie et critique du projet MA2 (Geers)", "description": "The Commons - part 2 will tackle the urgent issue of rebuilding the shared infrastructure of the European territory, with the periphery of Milan as its case-study. Content After a full year of research into\u00a0Metropolitan Architecture, this time\u00a0Architecture without Content\u00a0will tacklethe Commons. In the wake of Brexit and the current soul searching inside the European continent about both the amplitude of its territory and the essence of its shared culture, this issue appears even more urgent than ever. Of all possible cases we decided to focus our attention this year on Italy, because exactly there for a certain period of time\u00a0 public architecture has been a constitutional part of its civilization; i.e. the Roman machine. During a few centuries the standard urban infrastructure of any given Roman city (the theatre, the market, the agora, the baths, the temples, the basilica, the markets, the schools, the legion's headquarters and so forth) was in fact the essential spine of public life. This architecture thus allowed the very existence of the cities the way we got to know them. Since then,\u00a0the Commons\u00a0experienced ups and downs, were boosted by the pride of the city bourgeois in the Gothic cities, and were even carefully planned by the newly developed modern states. In the last century, both the totalitarian state and the welfare state, used\u00a0the Commons\u00a0to fulfill their own particular agenda thus producing the final incarnation of\u00a0the Commons\u00a0as a solid architectural apparatus for the cities. Since the eighties however, post Thatcher politics (i.e. the Empire) has been eroding\u00a0the Commons. Today,the Commons\u00a0we have left in our western society has a heavily transformed profile. In certain nations, as Italy, the phenomenon was particularly evident, as the investments on welfare had been drastically cut. No more social housing, no more schools, no more post offices, no more civic centers: the desert. In the far depths of the Even Covered Field, the suburban mall surreptitiously replaced some of the functions, as such becoming the only possible stage for twisted remnants of anything public.\u00a0 The reoccuring crisis of the current world-order asks urgently for a way out. Can architecture - common expression of power - enable such a rupture, or at least bring a contribution towards another equilibrium? We believe a possibility lays (again) in the formalization of\u00a0the Commons. This year we want to investigate if\u00a0the Commons\u00a0can still be made and how they can be effective again. We will design where the problem is more evident, in the endless extension of the Roman periphery, a nasty by-product of failed utopias and criminal real estate investments, and in the northern periphery of Milan where the planned city morphs into the informal accumulation of wildly individual choices. In Rome, during first semester, we will unfold a possible narrative following the lines of the Appia, a remarkable axis radiating from the city centre and pointing towards what is left of the Roman countryside. In the second semester we hope to repeate this 'trick' in Milan, using the Northern axis of Corso Sempione.\u00a0 In the tradition of the Modern, we will locate and design schools, post offices, civic centers, police stations and more, expecting to be surprised by the students even at the level of the program. Success is not guaranteed, but the stakes are too high to be ignored.\u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 Keywords Form, difficult whole, the even covering of the field, Roman Architecture, Metropolitan Architecture, \u00a0condensed urbanity, territory, technological optimism, public architecture, the commons. \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses UE L : Art et architecture: construire l'image I (Philipp Schaerer). De la structure \u00e0 l'ornement (Picon). Visions et Utopies (Braghieri). Recommended courses UE N : Art et architecture: construire l'image II (Philipp Schaerer) Architecture autonome (Lampariello) Architecture et construction de la ville I et II (Gilot) Caract\u00e8res architecturaux et urbanismes de l'Islam (Gachet) Histoire de l'architecture VII (Gargiani) Urbanisme en Asie (Ruzicka / Ferrari) Urbanisme et territoires (Ruzicka). Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Develop indepedently a consistent architectural project with a critical mindset and a precise cultural foundation.Produce drawings, models, perspectives that are able to communicate the idea of the project.Conduct a research of historical architectural types.Elaborate on the Even Covered Field and other themes that are discussed in the atelier FORM. Assessment methods Intermediate sessions (35 %). Final sessions (65%). Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "PENS-210", "name": "Renewable energy and solar architecture in Davos", "description": "The ENAC School offers a series of ENAC Weeks to the students of all three Sections on various territory-related themes. Through a practical project, the students will tackle a specific issue to be situated, analyzed and represented in a multidisciplinary fashion. Content The ENAC week at Davos offers interdisciplinary learning, in which aspects of landscape development and sustainable construction are jointly looked at from the perspectives of environmental and civil engineering, architecture, and important factors of the natural environment. The focus is on production and management of renewable energy. 1) Students learn about the complex interactions of society, infrastructure and environment in a touristic town situated in a comparatively pristine mountain environment. 2) Students develop a managable project concept within available time and resources. There is a choice of two focus areas related to \u00abRenewable Energy Production\u00bb or \u00abSustainable Housing Infrastructure\u00bb. For both themes, an economic feasibility study is required. 3) From the selected concept, students design their own development case, in which the diverse aspects of the theme are represented and discussed. Keywords Renewable energy production in mountain areas Sustainable building infrastructure/architecture Landscape planning and development Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Apply a multidisciplinary method or approachOrganize experimental or other collected dataDevelop and plan a complex projectAnalyze results with a critical stancePresent the project to a multidisciplinary audience Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Respect relevant legal guidelines and ethical codes for the profession.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Make an oral presentation.Collect data. Teaching methods Lectures and presentations Input from Teachers/Lecturers/Assistants Interdisciplinary Group/Team Work Practical work, Experiments, Hands-on Experience Assessment methods Written Report Oral presentation Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "BIO-507", "name": "Lab immersion in industry B", "description": "The student will engage in a laboratory-based project in the field of molecular medicine, neuroscience, or bioengineering. Student projects will emphasize acquisition of practical skills in experimentation and data analysis. Content A typical project will involve \"hands-on\" wet-lab experimentation and data analysis, although theoretical and computationally-oriented projects are also possible. The students must carry out an original research project in the field of molecular medicine, neuroscience, or bioengineering. This project will allow the student to apply the domain and transversal skills acquired during her/his previous studies to concrete research problems. Remark The student must download and complete the form 'Lab immersion in industry' (http://sv.epfl.ch/masters_en; see Directives) and submit it to the SV Section (SSV). The form must be approved and signed by an EPFL supervising professor and the SSV section director. The hosting laboratory may require the student and the supervising professor to sign a non-disclosure agreement (NDA). It is the student's responsibility to determine whether the host company requires an NDA and to ensure that it is signed and returned to the company before starting the lab immersion project. \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bachelor in Life Sciences and Technology Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manage an individual research projectDevelop expertise in a specific area of researchImplement appropriate technologies to address the scientific or engineering problem being studiedConduct experiments appropriate to the specific problem being studiedAssess / Evaluate data obtained in wet-lab and computational experimentsInterpret data obtained in wet-lab and computational experimentsOptimize experimental protocols and data presentationPlan to test hypotheses based on obtained results Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingDemonstrate a capacity for creativity.Write a scientific or technical report. Expected student activities Students will focus on hands-on experimentation, which may be wet-lab-based or computer-based, depending on the project. Students will read and discuss assigned papers from the original scientific literature. As part of the evaluation process, students may be required to submit a written report or to give an oral presentation that summarizes and interprets their results. Expected workload: one semester full time Assessment methods Continuous control Students must produce two written reports (http://sv.epfl.ch/masters_en; see Directives /Cover sheet - master lab immersion industry) during the lab immersion outside EPFL to obtain 22 credits. The two reports should each be maximally 10-15 A4 pages in length, including illustrations, figures, and bibliography. These reports must be signed by the student and countersigned by the head of the host laboratory. The student is responsible for sending her/his written reports (in PDF format with a scan of the signature page) directly to the supervising EPFL professor, who will evaluate them on a pass-fail basis. The supervising professor must transmit the outcomes of these evaluations to the SSV (master-stv@epfl.ch) within one week of the indicated dates below. If validated by the supervising professor and the head of the host laboratory, the two reports are the basis for granting 22 credits 'equivalence'. Additionally, the head of the host laboratory must complete a confidential evaluation form (http://sv.epfl.ch/masters_en; see Directives) and send it directly to the SSV (master-stv@epfl.ch) within two weeks after the student submits the second written report. Dates for submission of the written reports: 1st report: mid-term (week 7) \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 2nd report: end of semester (week 14)\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 The second report describes the progress made towards the goals outlined in the first report, including: (1) a brief recapitulation of the scientific problem; (2) results obtained and what conclusions can be drawn; (3) whether the original research plan is being followed and what adaptations have been made, with justification; (4) timeline of research for the rest of the semester; (5) a brief paragraph of self-evaluation on the student's integration into the laboratory and progress in mastering the relevant techniques and technologies. The deadline for submission of the written reports must be respected. Failure to submit a report, or late submission, may result in a 'non-acquis' (NA), i.e., non-award of the credits corresponding to the period covered by the report. Supervision Others Typically, the student will be matched with a secondary mentor in the host laboratory (this will usually be a senior PhD student or a postdoctoral fellow), who will take responsibility for the day-to- day supervision and training of the student"}
{"courseId": "CH-630(2)", "name": "Seminars in Physical Chemistry (2)", "description": "Students attend the Physical Chemistry seminars to become familiar with current topics in Physical Chemistry and broaden their horizon beyond their own field. The course work involves essays, summarizing the lectures and placing them in the broader context of the respective field. Content The goal of this course is to broaden the students' horizon by making them familiar with current topics in Physical Chemistry, in particular with ongoing research outside their own field. To this end, the students follow the Physical Chemistry seminar series for one semester (http://isic.epfl.ch/PCseminar) and meet the speakers to discuss their research. As a term paper, the students write reports on four lectures of their choice. The reports should summarize the presentations in a succinct manner and place them within the context of the respective field of research and general developments in Physical Chemistry. Note Next session Spring 2017 Assessment methods Term paper"}
{"courseId": "MATH-444", "name": "Multivariate statistics", "description": "Multivariate statistics deals with data consisting of vectors, where each observation is made on a collection of variables. Uncovering the associations between these variables is the main objective. The course teaches methods, some old, some new, that were developed for the analysis of such data. Content the multivariate normal distribution, estimation, tests, conditional distributions elliptical multivariate distributions model construction: copulas principal and independent components machine learning: supervised and unsupervised learning canonical analysis discriminant analysis correspondance analysis Keywords see the contents of the course Learning Prerequisites Required courses An introduction to Probability Theory and Statistics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Demonstrate his understanding of the course contentDefend a data analysis he/she performedCritique the mis-use of multivariate statistial methodsJustify the use of a method for a particular data set Transversal skills Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingCommunicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Manage priorities. Teaching methods Classroom lectures supported by the blackboard, occasional examples shown on the beamer, exercices in class andindependent work. Expected student activities The students are expected to work in the exercise sessions and finish the exercise sheets. Assessment methods Oral examination Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "FIN-407", "name": "Financial econometrics", "description": "The objective of this course is to present and study some topics of financial econometrics, and to apply the corresponding techniques and concepts. Content 1. Introduction: Describing financial time series 2. Overview of estimation techniques and applications Ordinary least squares, maximum likelihood and generalized method of moments, pseudo likelihood estimator. Applications : CAPM, factor models, predictive regressions. 3. An introduction to financial time series analysis: Stationarity/non stationarity Characterization of time series Class of ARIMA(p,d,q) processes 4. Multivariate time series analysis Vectorial autoregressive models (VAR) Cointegration and VECM Statistical arbitrage \u00a05. Modeling volatility\u00a0 Measuring volatility ARCH models GARCH models and extensions \u00a06. Multivariate GARCH models and Dynamic (conditional) correlation models \u00a07. Forecasting volatility \u00a08. Risk management \u00a0 Keywords Econometrics Empirical finance Learning Prerequisites Required courses Econometrics Introduction to finance Recommended courses Stochastic calculus Important concepts to start the course In order to follow this course the student needs to have taken an introduction to finance as well as an introduction to econometrics. Some foundations in stochastic calculus and portfolio allocation could be useful for certain lectures. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Formulate , explain, analyze and interpret the multiple linear regression model.Work out / Determine in practise whether the assumptions of estimation techniques (ordinary least squares, maximum likelihood, generalized method of moments) hold true and propose some solutions otherwise.Apply the estimation methods in different situations as for instance portfolio allocations and discretized (univariate) diffusion processes.Elaborate robust regression methodsFormulate , develop and analyze a forecasting problem.Identify and explain the main concepts of financial time series (stationarity, order of integration, autocorrelations, partial autocorrelations, cointegration).Model financial time series.Apply cointegration techniques in the context of statistical arbitrage models.Define and understand the concept of volatility (and correlation) from a statistical point of view.Implement and estimate a (multivariate) GARCH model. Interpret the results.Conduct a forecasting exercise for volatility.Formulate and analyze a problem of risk management.Interpret resultsChoose appropriate methods in different contexts Transversal skills Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles.Negotiate effectively within the group.Resolve conflicts in ways that are productive for the task and the people concerned.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingDemonstrate a capacity for creativity.Manage priorities.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsWrite a scientific or technical report.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art.Make an oral presentation.Collect data.Summarize an article or a technical report. Teaching methods Lectures and exercise sessions Expected student activities Participate in lectures Participate in exercises sessions Solve the problem sets Write a midterm exam Write a final exam Assessment methods 30% homework assignments 30% project 40% final exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Bibliography C. Alexander, Market risk analysis, volumes 1 and 2, Wiley,\u00a0 2008. Campbell, J.,Y., A.W.\u00a0 Lo and A.C. MacKinlay, The Econometrics of financial markets, Princeton University Press, 1997. Jondeau, E., S-H. Poon, and M. Rockinger, Financial modeling under non-normality, Springer Verlag, 2006. R.S. Tsay, Analysis of financial time series, Wiley, 2005. Other references will be provided for each lecture. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Predictive regressions / StambaughMarket risk analysis I / AlexanderFinancial modeling under non-gaussian distributions / JondeauMarket risk analysis II / AlexanderAnalysis of financial time series / TsayThe Econometrics of financial markets / Campbell"}
{"courseId": "ChE-401", "name": "Equilibrium-stage separation processes", "description": "Design of separation processes widely used in the industry, such as distillation, liquid-liquid extraction, gas absorption and stripping, using the equilibrium-stage approach. Content \u00a0 Role of separation processes in the chemical process industries. Categorization and description of separation processes. Analysis of processes operating at steady state using the equilibrium-stage approach. Cross-current and counter-current stage contacting. Numerical and graphical methods based on mass balances, heat balances and phase equilibrium relationships. Application to some important industrial processes including gas absorption, liquid/liquid extraction and rectification. Phase equilibrium thermodynamics. Isothermal and isobaric vapor/liquid equilibrium. Models for non-ideal cases. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Introduction to chemical engineering Thermodynamics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Compute the number of equilibrium stages using algebraic, graphical and numerical methodsPredict the effect of operational conditions on the performance of a separation processModel separation processes using the equilibrium-stage conceptApply phase equilibrium thermodynamics to compute the equilibrium line for vapor-liquid systems Teaching methods lectures (2 hours per week) exercises (1 hour per week) Assessment methods written exam"}
{"courseId": "MSE-638", "name": "Electron Microscopy for Life Science", "description": "This is a two-day course. It consists of seven lectures, and 2 afternoon practical/demonstration sessions that covers the principles of preparing biological samples from electron microscopy and a basic introduction to using scanning and transmission electron microscopes. Content Lectures1. Principles of transmission electron microscopy (Graham Knott)This lecture covers the basic principles of transmission electron microscopy, the optics of TEM, and the different imaging modes for biological samples.2. Preparing samples for transmission electron microscopy (Graham Knott)A lecture explaining how different types of biological samples from tissues and cells to proteins and macromolecules are prepared for electron microscopy.3. Single particle, cryo electron microscopy (Davide Demurtas)A lecture outlining how macromolecules, and large protein complexes can be prepared, imaged and analysed using electron microscopy. This will cover subjects such as negative staining, metal showing, as well as single particle analysis.4. Image analysis for electron microscopists (Petr Leiman)This lecture will introduce the field of cryo electron microscopy and how the native structure of biological samples can be imaged at high resolution with electrons. It will also cover the topic of electron tomography and how molecular structures can be determined using transmission electron microscopy.5. Immuno electron microscopy (Celine Loussert, UNIL)This lecture will introduce how proteins can be localised in cells and tissues using different immunocytochemistry techniques for electron microscopy.6. Scanning electron microscopy (Graham Knott)This lecture will cover the principles of scanning electron microscopy and introduce how biological samples are prepared for the different types of imaging modes. This will also include an introduction to the field of block face scanning EM. 7. Interpreting EM images of biological samples, and understanding the artifacts (Graham Knott)With the range of EM imaging methods available today biologists need to understand how to interpret the types of images shown and also understand some of the common artifacts that can arise. This lecture will show, with a series of examples, some of the common problems that can arise when imaging biological samples.\u00a0Practical sessions1. Preparing and imaging single particles for cryo electron microscopy. During this session students will learn how to freeze samples of proteins from imaging in the transmission electron microscope.2. Cutting and imaging mammalian cells for transmission electron microscopy. Here, students will learn how to cut ultrathin sections of resin embedding mammalian cells and image them with a transmission electron microscope. Keywords Transmission electron microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, cell biology Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Background understanding of biological processes. Assessment methods Written"}
{"courseId": "ENV-424", "name": "Water resources engineering", "description": "Water resources engineering designs systems to control the quantity, quality, timing, and distribution of water to support human demands and the needs of the environment. Content Water use and water withdrawals; Crop and irrigation water needs; Multipurpose water reservoir design and management (irrigation, water use, flood control, energy production); Review of principles of fluid mechanics for pipe flow; Water distribution networks; Pumps and turbines: characteristics and operating points; Hydropower production; Model of rainfall generation for Monte Carlo approaches; Flood control; Environmental flow; Multicriteria optimization; Water resources & climate change. Keywords Hydrologic modeling; water management; floods; droughts; distribution of water Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Hydrology, elementary fluid mechanics, MatLab Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Model the continuous functioning of a multipourpouse reservoirDesign water reservoir for generic input and output flow timeseriesEstimate irrigation water needs and irrigation water withdawalsEstimate hydropower productionDesign distribution networksPredict the effect of flood control measuresImplement and code simple conceptual hydrological modelsCompute the operating point of a pumpEstimate the potential energy produced by a hydropower plantDevelop models of synthetic rainfall Transversal skills Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods Ex cathedra teaching, exercises Expected student activities Attendance at lectures Weekly exercises Semester assignment \u00a0 Assessment methods Homework assignment 30%, Final exam in the post-semester exam period 70% Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "EE-330", "name": "IC design II", "description": "This course aims to introduce the key design principles for digital integrated circuits. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses CS-171, EE-331, EE-332, EE-320 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design key components of digital integrated circuitsInterpret various transistor-level design decisionsAnalyze the operation of key digital ICs Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools"}
{"courseId": "EE-585", "name": "Space mission design and operations", "description": "This course is a \"concepts\" course. It introduces a variety of concepts in use in the design of a space mission, manned or unmanned, and in space operations. it is at least partly based on the practical space experience of the lecturer Content \u00a0 Brief review of the fundamental laws of mechanics Types of space missions and their objectives.\u00a0 General concepts of space vehicles.\u00a0 The Space environment.\u00a0 Applied orbital mechanics, including interplanetary trajectories.\u00a0 Rendez-vous in space.\u00a0 Propulsion.\u00a0 Attitude determination and control.\u00a0 On board systems.\u00a0 Risk management.\u00a0 Examples: Space Shuttle, Space Station, Tethered Satellite, the Hubble Space Telescope.\u00a0 Extravehicular Activities.\u00a0 Future programs. \u00a0 Keywords Space systems Space research Space exploration Space engineering Space operations Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bachelor level courses in physics, vector analysis, and calculus Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate space mission goal and objectivesDesign mission to reach goalAssess / Evaluate competing designs Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures. Teaching methods 28 hour course in the spring semester, out of which 12 hours are exercise hours, to reinforce the concepts explained in the course Expected student activities actively participate in the course and exercise sessions Assessment methods oral examination Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "ME-425", "name": "Model predictive control", "description": "Provide an introduction to the theory and practice of Model Predictive Control (MPC). Main benefits of MPC: flexible specification of time-domain objectives, performance optimization of highly complex multivariable systems and ability to explicitly enforce constraints on system behavior. Content Review of convex optimization and required optimal control theory. Receding-horizon control for constrained linear systems. Practical issues: Tracking and offset-free control of constrained systems. Theoretical properties of constrained control: Constraint satisfaction and invariant set theory, Stability of MPC. Introduction to advanced topics in predictive control. Simulation-based project providing practical experience with MPC. Keywords Multi-variable control, Constrained systems, Model-based Control, Optimization Learning Prerequisites Required courses Automatique or Control Systems Recommended courses Multivariable systems or Dynamic coordination Important concepts to start the course State-space modeling Basic concepts of stability Linear quadratic regulation Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design an advanced controller for a dynamic system, A13Assess the stability, performance and robustness of a closed-loop system, A14Validate the performance (by simulations or experiments) of a mechatronic system, A24Evaluate and discuss the performance and the solutions, and draw conclusions, A26 Transversal skills Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Lectures, exercises and course project Expected student activities Participate in lectures, exercises and course project Homework of about 2 hours per week Assessment methods Reports on weekly exercises Report on simulation-based project Written mid-term exam Written final exam Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "CS-442", "name": "Computer vision", "description": "Computer Vision aims at modeling the world from digital images acquired using video or infrared cameras, and other imaging sensors. We will focus on images acquired using digital cameras. We will introduce basic processing techniques and discuss their field of applicability. Content Introduction History of Computer Vision Human vs Machine Vision Image formation Extracting 2D Features Contours Texture Regions 3D Shape Recovery From one single image From multiple images \u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Foundations of Image Science Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose relevant algorithms in specific situationsPerform simple image-understanding tasks Teaching methods Ex cathedra lectures and programming exercises using matlab. Assessment methods With continuous control"}
{"courseId": "CH-443", "name": "Photochemistry II", "description": "Following \"Photochemistry I\", this course introduces the current theoretical models regarding the dynamics of electron transfer. It focuses then on photoredox processes at the surface of solids. Current technological applications, as well as the most recent advances in the field are presented. Content 1. Dynamics of photoinduced electron transfer. Theoretical models of charge transfer dynamics - Marcus-Hush theory - Fermi golden rule - Semi-classical model - Photoinduced ET - Sensitization of a wide bandgap semiconductor - Detailed treatment of examples of homogeneous and micro-heterogeneous systems 2. Photoelectrochemistry of semiconductors. Contact phenomena at the solid/solid and solid/electrolyte interfaces - Case of finely dispersed semiconductor particles - Ions specific adsorption and surface states - Dynamics of charge carriers in the solid - Spectral sensitization of large bandgap semiconductors 3. Photo-electrochemical conversion of solar energy. Thermodynamic principles and limitations of solar energy conversion efficency - Photogalvanic and photovoltaic cells - Artificial photosynthesis 4. Photocatalysis. Advanced oxidation processes 5. Photographic and xerographic processes. Molecular systems - Photopolymer systems - Electrophotography - Offset printing - Silver photography - Color reproduction 6. Optical data storage. Color theory - High resolution spectroscopy - Optical discs - Holography. Keywords Electron transfer dynamics, Marcus theory, Fermi Golden Rule, Photoinduced electron transfer, Semiconductor photoelectrochemistry, Photoelectrochemical conversion of solar energy, Photovoltaics, Photocatalysis, Photography and xerography, Color theory, Optical data storage Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Quantume chemistry, Molecular spectroscopy, Photochemistry I Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the principles of current models of the electron transfer (ET) dynamicsDiscuss the hypotheses made in the various approximations of these theoriesDescribe the predictions of classical and semi-classical ET theoriesRepresent and explain the constitution of space charge layers at interfacesDistinguish the various sources of the limitation of solar energy conversion efficiencyRepresent the principle of photovoltaic and solar fuels generation systemsDescribe the principle of the functionning of photographic and xerographic processesFormulate the theory aof colors and explain its application to high resolution spectroscopyPropose an example of a photoinduced interfacial electron transfer process and discuss the parameters controlling its rate and efficiency Teaching methods Ex cathedra lectures Assessment methods Final oral examination Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No"}
{"courseId": "ME-466", "name": "Instability", "description": "This course focuses on the physical mechanisms at the origin of the transition of a flow from laminar to turbulent using the hydrodynamic instability theory. Content Learn to understand the complex phenomena originating in the destabilization of laminar flows, and their transition to turbulence. Know how to linearize the fluid equations and to formulate the question of stability of a flow in terms of an eigenvalue problem and a dispersion relation. Identify the physical mechanisms resulting in classical instabilities as Kelvin-Helmholtz instability. Spatial instability in open flows. Understanding the different types of bifurcations. Reading scientific literature. Keywords Instability, linearization, bifurcation Learning Prerequisites Required courses Incompressible fluid mechanics Recommended courses hydrodynamics Important concepts to start the course concept of linear operator and eigenvalues be able to solve a linear differential system at constant coefficients Fourier analysis Taylor expansions Navier-Stokes equations Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Make an oral presentation. Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art. Summarize an article or a technical report. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the physical differences between laminar and turbulent flows, AH4Implement the basics of computer programming; develop a (simple) structures software using a programming language / environment such as C, Fortran or Matlab, AH40 Transversal skills Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsMake an oral presentation.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Summarize an article or a technical report. Teaching methods Lectures, exercice and homework Expected student activities The students should follow the lectures and practise at home both the resolution of application exercises and the reading of scientific articles. Assessment methods Oral exam consisting of the oral analysis of an article previously chosen by the student. In addition, a written exam containing two application exercices counts for 20% of the grade. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MSE-637(a)", "name": "Transmission electron microscopy and diffraction (a)", "description": "This intensive course is intended for researchers who envisage using transmission electron microscopy to study materials samples or to help them interpret TEM data in publications. It presents basics of TEM instrumentation, imaging, electron diffraction, specimen preparation and high-resolution TEM. Content This intensive course is intended for researchers who are potential new users of transmission electron microscopes for study of materials (i.e. all non-biological) samples. It will provide them with a basic understanding of the instruments, sample requirements, optics of TEM, electron diffraction, the imaging modes, high-resolution TEM, and related theories of image formation.\u00a0Demonstrations will be given on the microscopes.\u00a0\u00a02x Year Spring (b) and autumn (a) Keywords TEM, electron diffraction, high-resolution TEM Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basic knowledge of crystallography and diffraction is advised Assessment methods Written"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-609", "name": "Modern photovoltaic technologies", "description": "A link between the fundamental physics, device operation and technological development of various solar cell technologies. Learning about all modern photovoltaic technlogies incl. industrially relevant wafer based silicon, thin film chalcogenide, III-V, multijunction, organic and hybrid solar cells. Content Part 1 - Inorganic PV1.1 Introduction, solar cell basics and operation, generations of solar cell technologies1.2 Si-based solar cells (c-Si, tf-Si, tundems) 1.3 CIGS solar cells1.4 CdTe and III-V solar cells\u00a0Part 2 - Organic PV2.1 Organic semiconductors 2.2. Polymer solar cells2.3. Dye-sensitized and hybrid solar cells\u00a0Part 3 - Light management3.1 Light propagation and interferences in multilayer structures 3.2 Coherent and incoherent scattering for absorption enhancement Keywords photovoltaics, inorganic semiconductors, organic semiconductors, optics, light management"}
{"courseId": "EE-726", "name": "Sparse stochastic processes", "description": "We cover the theory and applications of sparse stochastic processes (SSP). SSP are solutions of differential equations driven by non-Gaussian innovations. They admit a parsimonious representation in a wavelet basis and are relevant to coding, compressed sensing, and biomedical imaging. Content Mastery of the continuous-domain theory of Gaussian and non-Gaussian stochastic processes and of the corresponding\u00a0 mathematical machinery: \u00a0- Generalized functions, (fractional) differential operators, Fourier multipliers, singular integrals \u00a0- Innovation models and operator-based resolution of linear stochastic differential equations \u00a0- Characteristic form, L\u00e9vy-Khinchine representation, functional link with splines, infinite divisibility and sparsity Representation and analysis of sparse stochastic processes: - Operator-like wavelets, decoupling using discrete operators, determination of transform-domain statistics Ability to design algorithms for the recovery of sparse signals with application to biomedical imaging: - Principled discretization of inverse problems, MAP and MMSE estimators - Specification of iterative linear reconstruction algorithms using proximal operators and efficient linear solvers \u00a0 Sparse stochastic processes are continuous-domain processes that admit a parsimonious representation in some matched wavelet-like basis. Such models are relevant to image compression, compressed sensing, and, more generally, to the derivation of statistical algorithms for solving ill-posed inverse problems. This course is devoted to the study of the broad family of sparse processes that are specified by a generic (non-Gaussian) innovation model or, equivalently, as solutions of linear stochastic differential equations driven by white L\u00e9vy noise. It presents the mathematical tools for their characterization. The two leading threads that underly the exposition are: ' the statistical property of infinite divisibility, which induces two distinct types of behavior'Gaussian vs. sparse'at the exclusion of any other ' the structural link between linear stochastic processes and spline functions which is exploited to simplify the mathematics The concepts are illustrated with the derivation of algorithms for the recovery of sparse signals, with applications to biomedical image reconstruction. In particular, this leads to a Bayesian reinterpretation of popular sparsity-promoting processing schemes'such as total-variation denoising, LASSO, and wavelet shrinkage'as MAP estimators for specific types of sparse processes. The formulation also suggests alternative recovery procedures that minimize the estimation error. The course is targeted to an audience of graduate students and researchers with an interest in signal/image processing, compressed sensing, approximation theory, machine learning, or statistics. \u00a0 For more details, including table of content, see http://www.sparseprocesses.org/ Keywords Signal and image processing, sparsity, stochastic modeling, wavelets, compressed sensing. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Theory of linear systems, Fourier transform, Signal processing, statistics."}
{"courseId": "MSE-202", "name": "Cristallography and diffraction methods", "description": "Diffraction methods are widely used to investigate the crystallography and microstructural properties of materials. This course intends to give an introduction to crystallography, the basics of diffraction and diffraction methods. Content -\u00a0Symmetry and periodicity of crystals, Bravais lattices, Point\u00a0and\u00a0Space groups - Introduction to diffraction (reciprocal lattice, Bragg, Laue, Ewald sphere, structure factor,\u00a0diffraction pattern analysis, peak profile) - X-ray diffraction for selected applications in crystallography and materials science: various methods/geometries, their capacities and limits, powder diffraction, Laue diffraction, crystalline phase identification, analysis of crystallite size and residual strain- epitaxial and polycrystalline films: texture analysis, pole figures. - Other diffraction techniques used in materials science (neutrons, electrons),\u00a0examples of applications - Introduction to large facilities: synchrotron sources and neutron sources, when to use them \u00a0 Keywords crystallography, diffraction, Xrays, neutrons, crystalline materials Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Students are supposed to: be familiar with symmetry operations,be able to recognise/identify symmetry,be familiar with the formalism of direct and reciprocal space,understand and perform stereographic projection,be able to analyse simple Laue and powder diffraction patterns,know different diffraction methods used for single crystals and polycrystalline systems,interpret diffraction data from scientific publications,be familiar with use and possibilities of large X-ray and neutron facilities for material science Expected student activities lectures and excercises during the lectures Assessment methods oral exam with time for preparation"}
{"courseId": "FIN-403", "name": "Econometrics", "description": "The course covers basic econometric models and methods that are routinely applied to obtain inference results. Content - Linear models;- Least squares regression;- Instrumental variables;- Nonlinear models;- Nonspherical errors;- Generalized method of moments;- Panel data models, fixed effects and random effects;- Consistency, efficiency and asymptotic distribution of estimators;- Hypothesis testing Keywords Linear models - least squares regression Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Linear algebra Basic notions of statistics and economics Important concepts to start the course Probability and distributions Laws of large numbers Central limit theorems Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the basic assumptions of the linear regression model.Test whether the basic assumptions of the linear regression model are met in the data using formal statistical procedures.Derive statistical estimators like least squares and instrumental variables estimators.Recall basic goodness-of-fit measures like R-squared.Construct linear regression models from actual data using statistical variable-selection techniques like t-statistics and F-tests.Discuss and apply panel data models.Describe the main advantages and disadvantages of likelihood-based and GMM-based inference procedures.Carry out linear and nonlinear hypothesis testing procedures.Discuss asymptotic properties of linear and nonlinear estimators like consistency.Conduct team-work and write an econometric report about linear and nonlinear regression models. Transversal skills Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Lectures Expected student activities Group homework, exercises Assessment methods 30% Homework 30% Midterm exam (close book) 40% Final exam (close book) Supervision Assistants Yes Resources Bibliography \"Econometric analysis / William H. Greene\". Year:2008. ISBN:978-0-13-513740-6 Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Econometric analysis / Greene Notes/Handbook Lecture slides"}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-516", "name": "Lab methods : histology", "description": "Presentation of the diverse techniques to prepare samples for bright field microscopy, as well as procedures for standard histology stains and proteins detection with observation of tissues under microscope. Content Theory\u00a0: Sample preparation for bright field microscopy Artefacts Special staining Protein detection Praxis\u00a0: Routine stain for pathology (hematoxylin and eosine) Immunohistochemistry Observation and description of tissues under microscope Keywords Techniques Histology Microscopy Learning Prerequisites Required courses None Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose Methods to prepare samplesCompare Advantages and disadvantges of different techniquesDescribe Methods for protein detectionPerform Protocols for Hematoxylin and eosin as well as immunohistochemistry Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources. Teaching methods Ex cathedra teaching and praxis Expected student activities Lecture will take place on the 20th, 22nd and 27th of September 2016 \u00a0 Attendance at lectures Completing the pratical part Prepare description of tissues \u00a0 Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "AR-401(w)", "name": "Studio MA1 (Escher et GuneWardena)", "description": "Intervention to one of two iconic architectural heritage sites of American modernity, respecting its historical, spatial and physical components, and providing an adequate response to the economic, cultural and social issues. Content The point of departure of the Studio is to apprehend Los Angeles as a place of experimentation and a laboratory of Twentieth Century Architecture. Students are invited to develop projects in emblematic sites of Californian Modernist Architecture respecting its historical, spatial and structural components. \u00a0 Both semesters will start with a series of case studies including project sites and various important Los Angeles buildings. Two sites are scheduled for the fall semester: John Lautner's Chemosphere House (1960), and the Charles & Ray Eames House (1949 / Case Study House #8), two buildings that both address ideas of pre-fabrication and mass-production, but occupy differing architectural positions. While the fall semester is dedicated to case studies of well-known and costly houses, the spring semester is meant to provide a complementary approach with an introduction to the idea of affordability and frugal building as represented by Rudolf Schindler and early Frank Gehry's works. Keywords Architecture - pr\u00e9servation - restauration - transformation - extension - materiality - construction. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Understand the theoretical and technical challenges of a preservation project.Analyze a building in its historical, material and spatial components, to define its value, qualities and its flaws.Develop a proposition of intervention in adequation with the observations on the existing site. Teaching methods Desk critics, workshops, midterm reviews, study trip and other visits, conferences, theoretical courses. Expected student activities Case studies, review of archival material and analysis of the subjects, understanding of the buildings and identification of their potentials, elaboration of a project using this acquired knowledge. Assessment methods 20 % of the grade corresponds to analytical work of the existing and case studies. 20 % of the grade corresponds to the project development during the semester. 60 % of the grade will be defined by the jury at the end of the final review. Supervision Others Work in the studio will be supervised every week by the assistants. A midterm review and workshops will be organized on a regular basis during the semester with the professors."}
{"courseId": "ChE-201", "name": "Introduction to chemical engineering", "description": "Introduction to Chemical Engineering is an introductory course that provides a basic overview of the chemical engineering field. It addresses the formulation and solution of material and energy balances by using the physical/chemical properties of materials. Content Basis concepts Definition of chemical engineering Definition of\u00a0steady-state and transient system Introduction to mass balances Introduction to energy balances introduction to combined mass and energy balance \u00a0 Keywords Flowchart of chemical process Mass balance Energy balance Degree of freedom analysis Unit operations Learning Prerequisites Required courses General chemistry Physics Algebra Important concepts to start the course an understanding of chemical and physical properties of materials an ability to apply knowledge of mathematics to solve equations \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Draw the flowchart of chemical processes for single and multiple unit operations and label all the streamsIdentify the process variables and develop relationships between process variablesAnalyze all the units by doing a degree of freedom (DOF) analysisSpecify the reactive and non-reactive systemsFormulate the mass and energy balances equations required to solve the system and calculate all the unknownsUse tables and charts to pick up physical property data needed to solve material and energy balancesReport all the assumptions and engineering calculations and problem solutions in a stepwise manner Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion. Teaching methods The course is presented using powerpoint slides. In the 2 first hours of the course the concepts are introduced and several examples are shown and the students are asked to work together for few minutes and then sugest the solution methods. Finally the solutions of the examples are shown. In the third hour (excercise session), several problems are given to students. They work on problems and ask questions for 30 minutes and then the solutions are given by assistants on the blackboard for the rest 30 minutes.\u00a0 Expected student activities Taking notes in the course hours Working in groups to solve the examples given in the course hours Solve the problems in the exercise hour Assessment methods This course provides a continious evaluation of the students. There are 3 written exams including the final exam. The first exam is a bonus exam and the second is the midterm exam."}
{"courseId": "MGT-439", "name": "Information technology and digital strategy", "description": "In this course students should gain a broad-based knowledge of the ever-changing world of information technology and how it relates to corporate business operations and strategy as well as to digital business innovation. Content An introduction to electronic commerce and the elements of its infrastructure. Explore current, and identify possible future, information technology and digital innovation trends, including big data and analytics, blockchain, crowdsourcing, outsourcing, and operations. Identify strategies for electronic commerce and digital business and how those strategies relate to and support business models. Keywords Information technology - Information systems - Strategic use of Information Systems - e-commerce - outsourcing - crowdsourcing - digital innovation - digital strategy - digital governance Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe electronic commerce and the elements of its infrastructureExplore current, and identify possible future, information technology trends and digital innovation trends, including big data and analytics, blockchain, crowdsourcing, outsourcing and operationsIdentify strategies for electronic commerce and how those strategies relate to and support business modelsIdentify strategies for digital innovation and how those strategies relate to and support business modelsDescribe digital innovation and the elements of its infrastructureInterpret the digital transformation of organizations Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Case Method Assessment methods Continuous assessment combining: 25% class participation 50% group case reports 25% group case analysis Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "BIO-609", "name": "Practical - Bucher Lab", "description": "Explorative analysis of in vivo transcription factor binding sites using public ChIP-seq data and web-based analysis tools. Content The ChIP-seq server is a web-based bioinformatics analysis platform developed and maintained by the Bucher group. It offers access to a large database of public data. At the beginning of the course, each student will select a ChIP-seq data sample from the ChIP-seq server menu. The subsequent analysis of the data sample will focus on the following tasks: Data quality control Generation of \"peak lists\" corresponding to in vivo transcription factor binding sites Motif mining and motif enrichment analysis in peak regions Statistics about peak location relative to gene bodies and gene set enrichment analysis Genomic context analysis: histone modifications, DNase I hypersensitive regions, sequence conservation and SNP density in the neighborhood of peaks During the work, students will familiarize themselves with a number of in-house developed and external bioinformatics resources: \u00a0ChIP-seq server, Signal Search analysis (SSA), PWMTools , MEME-ChIP, GREAT and Nebula. At the end of the course, each student will summarize the results obtained in a research paper-like format. \u00a0 Note Note that while the course is open to all first year EPFL doctoral students, priority will be given to EDMS students, given that they are mandated to take three of EDMS practical modules. Note also that doctoral students from the Bucher laboratory cannot take this course. Access is limited to 4 students."}
{"courseId": "PHYS-702", "name": "Advanced quantum field theory", "description": "The course builds on the two previous courses on the subject. The main subject is the study of quantum field theories at the loop level. The course introduces the concept of loop divergences and renormalization. Non abelian gauge theories are also discussed in depth. Content Skills developed in the course include the use of the Path integral formalism, methodologies to perform loop calculations and renormalization. 1) Path integral approach to QFT 2) Regularization and renormalization applications to scalar fields with a quartic interaction application to Yukawa theory application to Quantum Electrodynamics 3) Non-abelian gauge theories BRST quantization renormalization at 1- loop 4) The renormalization group Callan Symanzik equation asymptotic freedom fixed points 5) Anomalies Keywords Path integral formalism, divergences renormalization, Gauge theories Renormalization group, Anomalies Learning Prerequisites Required courses Quantum mechanics 1,2 - Quantum Field theory 1,2 \u00a0 Recommended courses Conformal Field theory and gravity Gauge theories and the Standard Model Expected student activities Study a quantum field theory at quantum level. Understanding and interpreting loop effects in a quantum field theory. Performing loop calculations in gauge theories."}
{"courseId": "MATH-726", "name": "Working group in Topology I", "description": "The theme of the working group varies from year to year. Examples of recent topics studied include: Galois theory of ring spectra, duality in algebra and topology, and topological algebraic geometry. Content Note Talks in the working group can be given in French or English. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Elementary homotopy theory, undergraduate algebra"}
{"courseId": "CS-210", "name": "Functional programming", "description": "Understanding of the principles and applications of declaratative programming, the fundamental models of program execution, application of fundamental methods of program composition,meta-programming through the construction of interpreters and advanced programming techniques. Content Introduction to programming in Scala Expressions and functions Classes and objects Evaluation by rewriting Pattern matching\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Polymorphism Evaluation strategies Domain-specific languages Constraint programming Language interpretation An interpreter for Lisp An interpreter for Prolog Learning Prerequisites Required courses Introduction to the programming\u00a0 objet Theory and practice of programming Important concepts to start the course Compiler Construction Foundations of Software Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Create functional programsDesign robust and readable softwareFormalize program correctnessInterpret programs automaticallyProve correctness using inductionConstruct software Transversal skills Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion. Teaching methods MOOC. Ex Cathedra. Exercises and projects Assessment methods Continuous and written test at the end of the course"}
{"courseId": "BIO-694", "name": "Neurotechnologies to treat neurodisorders: neuroprosthetics (EDNE)", "description": "The Workshop will present state of the art technologies and strategies to treat neurological disorders. Talks covers three areas of interest in neuro-rehabilitation: robotics in motor rehabilitation, neuromodulation of the nervous system, and approaches for cognitive disorders. Content The aim of the IBSA forum is to promote discussion about the state of the art neuro-technologies for treating neuro-motor disorders. The main focus of the event will be on how these technologies have been developed in the past and how they may be improved by deepening our understanding of the nervous system. Following the central to periphery organization of the neuro-motor system, talks will be divided into three sessions covering the neurophysiological aspects of a particular pathology and the state of the art approaches to clinical therapies. Each session will be dedicated to a specific macro-area: 1) understanding and restoring of motor control, 2) interfacing with the peripheral nervous system and the spinal cord, 3) restoring and enhancement of cognitive function. \u00a0 Keywords Neurotechnologies Neurodisorders Learning Prerequisites Required courses None Recommended courses None Important concepts to start the course None Assessment methods The student will have to: 1) attend the forum 2) send an abstract and present a poster at the forum 3) send a summary report about the topics covered during the forum within two weeks after the forum. The report has to summarize the different topics covered during the forum with particular attention on future prospective the student may envisage for the field. \u00a0 These reports and posters will be evaluated by Prof. Micera and the two chairmen of the Forum."}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-512", "name": "Lab methods : bioactive compounds screening", "description": "Introduction to the key principles and concepts underlying the screening activity to identify and to characterize bioactive compounds (chemicals, compounds, siRNAs and natural products) acting on a given biological target or a signalling pathway. Content Presentation of the drug discovery principles and processes Description of the variety of molecular screening assays, from in vitro target-based to cellular phenotypic assays Detailed description of the screening activity, high throughput and high content, with special emphasis on the assay development and validation steps Generation of experimental results linked to selected assays: in vitro enzymatic, cytotoxicity and siRNA cell-transfection assay Evaluation and discussion of the generated data in the frame of the screening activity Keywords Screening / Drug discovery / Assay development /Assay validation/ z' factor / siRNA / Transfection / Cell viability / Enzymatic activity / Inhibitor / Dose response \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Chemical Biology, Biochemistry, Cell Biology Recommended courses Bio-494 scientific project design in drug discovery Important concepts to start the course Basis of cell biology (cell viability, cytotoxicity, RNAinterference, transfection) Basis of biochemistry (enzymology, inhibition) Basic knowledge in chemistry (physical, analytical and organic chemistry) Basic knowledge of statistics applied to biology Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate the process of a screening campaignChoose a screening strategy for a given biological questionDevelop a screening assayDesign a screening assayPropose an assay improvementAnalyze results of a screening assayCarry out different kind of experiments to develop an assayCharacterize effect of bioactive compoundsDetect interferencesExamine different mode of actionManipulate cells, compounds, reagents and fluids in microplate formatQuantify the effect of compound through pharmacological curves fittingPerform cell-based experiments in sterile environnmentPresent generated results to othersDiscuss results of experiments, in particular screening assays Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Respect the rules of the institution in which you are working.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingWrite a scientific or technical report.Take responsibility for health and safety of self and others in a working context. Teaching methods Ex-cathedra courses:Theoretical introduction and case studies presentations Practical work: Performing experiments including results analyses Interactive discussion of generated data and biochemical/biological relevance Training and utilisation of instrumental devices under expert supervision (readers, liquid handlers) Attend robotic workstations demos during the visit of the screening platform labs. The course will take place from 21st to 25th November 2016. Expected student activities Attendance to the whole course Read and understand experimental protocols Carry out experiments in the lab (by group of 2) Analyze daily results (basic statistic with computer), including critical evaluation Share data and involvment in general discussion Read some general papers of interest selected and related to the course \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-534", "name": "Advanced MEMS", "description": "In depth analysis of the operation principles and technology of advanced micro- and nanosystems. Familiarisation to their implementation into products and their applications. Content Introduction: MEMS history, overview of the different types of MEMS and microsystems. Smart systems and 3D architectures. Current state of the art and trends at the academic and industrial levels. Market players and forecasts. Transducing principles review: Detection (capacitive, piezoresistive, thermal) and actuation (thermal, electromagnetic, electrostatic, piezoelectric) principles of common MEMS devices. MEMS Sensors: Introduction to motion sensors, 3D accelerometers, gyroscopes, pressure sensors, microphones, resonators, CMOS integration, multi-parametric sensor devices. MEMS Actuators and Optical MEMS: Electrostatic and magnetic actuators; MOEMS in Consumer Electronics and Mobile (Micromirrors and Arrays, Scanners, Projectors, Displays, MEMS Spectrometers and Optical Filters); MOEMS in Telecommunications (Optical Switches, Tunable Lasers, Filters and Variable Optical Attenuators). MEMS Gas Sensors: capacitive, resistive, catalytic, FET, optical, silicon micromachined vapor and gas sensing devices, micro-analytical instruments for gas detection. RF-MEMS: RF resonators for filters, frequency sources, time reference, and sensors. NEMS: Introduction to Nano electro mechanical systems with particular emphasis on physical, chemical and biological sensors. Packaging: Die level vs. wafer level, packaging techniques, hermetic packaging, Through Silicon Vias (TSVs), 3D-integration. Power MEMS: Overview of micro power sources, batteries and solar cells vs. MEMS based devices, energy harvesting (thermal, mechanical and chemical). Polymeric and Printed Microsystems: Polymeric MEMS on rigid and soft substrates. Printing technologies and printed sensors. Industrial Seminars: Presenting the manufacturing and/or the implementation of MEMS devices into products Keywords MEMS/NEMS, Microsystems, Sensors and Actuators, Motion sensors, Actuators, Resonators, RF, Power, Optical, Polymer, Packaging. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Sensors, Materials and Technology of Microfabrication I&II Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the operation principles of advanced micro- and nanosystemsDescribe the technology implemented in advanced micro- and nanosystemsApply a concept of a micro- and nano-device into a real device considering the scaling laws and boundary conditions involvedPresent the basics of implementation of MEMS into productsList the trends in the sensor and MEMS field Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Lectures, exercises, case studies, and seminars from the industry. Expected student activities Attendance at lectures and seminars Reading written material Solving the exercises Assessment methods Oral Examination at the end of the course Oral presentation during the course Reports on Industrial Seminars \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "AR-401(c)", "name": "Th\u00e9orie et critique du projet MA1 (Geers)", "description": "The Commons - part 1: Appia Novissima will tackle the urgent issue of rebuilding the shared infrastructure of the European territory, with the Roman periphery as its case-study. Content After a full year of research into Metropolitan Architecture, this time Architecture without Content will tackle the Commons. In the wake of Brexit and the current soul searching inside the European continent about both the amplitude of its territory and the essence of its shared culture, this issue appears even more urgent than ever. Of all possible cases we decided to focus our attention this year on Italy, because exactly there for a certain period of time\u00a0 public architecture has been a constitutional part of its civilization; i.e. the Roman machine. During a few centuries the standard urban infrastructure of any given Roman city (the theatre, the market, the agora, the baths, the temples, the basilica, the markets, the schools, the legion's headquarters and so forth) was in fact the essential spine of public life. This architecture thus allowed the very existence of the cities the way we got to know them. Since then, the Commons experienced ups and downs, were boosted by the pride of the city bourgeois in the Gothic cities, and were even carefully planned by the newly developed modern states. In the last century, both the totalitarian state and the welfare state, used the Commons to fulfill their own particular agenda thus producing the final incarnation of the Commons as a solid architectural apparatus for the cities. Since the eighties however, post Thatcher politics (i.e. the Empire) has been eroding the Commons. Today, the Commons we have left in our western society has a heavily transformed profile. In certain nations, as Italy, the phenomenon was particularly evident, as the investments on welfare had been drastically cut. No more social housing, no more schools, no more post offices, no more civic centers: the desert. In the far depths of the Even Covered Field, the suburban mall surreptitiously replaced some of the functions, as such becoming the only possible stage for twisted remnants of anything public.\u00a0 The reoccuring crisis of the current world-order asks urgently for a way out. Can architecture - common expression of power - enable such a rupture, or at least bring a contribution towards another equilibrium? We believe a possibility lays (again) in the formalization of the Commons. This year we want to investigate if the Commons can still be made and how they can be effective again. We will design where the problem is more evident, in the endless extension of the Roman periphery, a nasty by-product of failed utopias and criminal real estate investments, and in the northern periphery of Milan where the planned city morphs into the informal accumulation of wildly individual choices. In Rome, during first semester, we will unfold a possible narrative following the lines of the Appia, a remarkable axis radiating from the city centre and pointing towards what is left of the Roman countryside. In the second semester we hope to repeate this 'trick' in Milan, using the Northern axis of Corso Sempione.\u00a0 In the tradition of the Modern, we will locate and design schools, post offices, civic centers, police stations and more, expecting to be surprised by the students even at the level of the program. Success is not guaranteed, but the stakes are too high to be ignored. Keywords Form, difficult whole, the even covering of the field, Roman Architecture, Metropolitan Architecture, \u00a0condensed urbanity, territory, technological optimism, public architecture, the commons, Via Appia Learning Prerequisites Required courses UE L : Art et architecture: construire l'image I (Schaerer). De la structure \u00e0 l'ornement (Picon). Visions et Utopies (Braghieri). Recommended courses UE N : Art et architecture: construire l'image II (Schaerer) Architecture autonome (Lampariello) Architecture et construction de la ville I et II (Gilot) Histoire de l'architecture VII (Gargiani) Urbanisme en Asie (Ruzicka / Ferrari) Urbanisme et territoires (Ruzicka). Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Develop indepedently a consistent architectural project with a critical mindset and a precise cultural foundation.Produce drawings, models, perspectives that are able to communicate the idea of the project.Conduct a research of historical architectural types.Elaborate on the Even Covered Field, Roman Architecture and Metropolitan Architecture. Teaching methods The students acquire the capacity of working alone and in small groups. The teaching activity will develop through lectures, specific workshops and table work. Lectures by external lecturers will address specific topics. Students will present their work every second week in a public pin up session. Assessment methods 'Intermediate sessions (35 %). Final sessions (65%). Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-710", "name": "PLLs and clock & data recovery", "description": "The course is covering following aspects: Fundamentals of Analog PLLs, Interference Effects, Deadzone and Phase Noise, VCO Design, All-Digital PLL Architecture and Implementation, Digitally-Controlled Oscillator, Time-to-Digital Converter, RC-Oscillators, Designing XTAL and MEMS Oscillator. Content Day 1: - \u00a0Fundamentals of Analog PLLs- Interference Effects in PLLs- Spiral Inductor Interference, Deadzone and Phase Noise Day 2: - VCO Design- Jitter and Phase Noise in PLLs Day 3: - All-Digital PLL Architecture and Implementation- Digitally-Controlled Oscillator (DCO)- Time-to-Digital Converter (TDC) Day 4: - Oscillator Basics: Feedback and Power Consumption- RC-Oscillators- Designing XTAL and MEMS Oscillator from MHz to GHz- Low Phase Noise and Low Jitter 0.1-10GHz VCO Day 5: - Fractional-N PLLs for Frequency Synthesis- FDC-Based Digital PLLs Note * Organized by MEAD/EPFL More informations & registration at:http://mead.ch/MEADNEW/plls-and-oscillators/ Contact: education@mead.ch Keywords Clock Recovery, PLL, VCO Circuits, Oscillators, Transceivers"}
{"courseId": "ENV-716", "name": "Active Remote Sensing of the Atmosphere", "description": "Provide the students the basics to understand and analyze remotely sensed measurements from active systems like lidar (in particular temperature, humidity, aerosols) and radar (weather and cloud radar, wind profiler). Content Optical remote sensing: 1. Structure and composition of the atmosphere 2. Light propagation in the atmosphere 3. Fundamentals of the lidar techniques 4. Atmospheric lidar types 5. Basics of the lidar hardware 6. Long open-path techniques \u00a0 Microwave remote sensing: 1. Precipitation and cloud microphysics 2. Principle of weather radar 3. Multiparameter weather radar 4. Sources of error 5. Cloud radar 6. Wind profiler '"}
{"courseId": "BIO-638", "name": "Practical - Lemaitre Lab", "description": "Drosophila immunity. Give students a feel for some of the approaches pursued to understand mechanisms underlying cell division innate immunity in Drosophila. Content Students will learn how to use Drosophila to dissect host-pathogen interactions. Lab work will include survival analysis using wild-type and mutant fly stocks, antimicrobial peptide gene expression using RT-qPCR or reporter genes, methods to infect flies... http://lemaitrelab.epfl.ch/ Note Note that while the course is open to all first year EPFL doctoral students, priority will be given to EDMS students, given that they are mandated to take three EDMS practical modules. Note also that doctoral students from Lemaitre laboratory cannot take this course. Access is limited to 2-3 students (exceptionally 4 students can attend). Keywords Drosophila, innate immunity, infection, gut immunity."}
{"courseId": "EE-532", "name": "Integrated circuits technology", "description": "This course will give an overview of some of the most relevant aspects of CMOS technology used to design and fabricate integrated circuits. Current research and challenges brought about by shrinking Field Effect Transistors down to the nm scale will also be tackled. Content 'Introduction & Basics of integration technology 'Cleaning processes 'Thermal treatments 'Implantation 'Semiconductor Film growth 'Lithography 'Etching processes 'Metallization 'Process Integration 'Advanced multigate nano scale FET architectures. Keywords Silicon CMOS MOSFET SOI Implantation. Etchning. Annealing isolation oxide \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course No prequisite is needed, however very basic knowledge about MOSFET principles is welcome. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Synthesize informations on technology processesClassify technological steps to fabricate an ICVisualize the process flow Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives. Teaching methods Class lectures. Correction of exercices left for home work. Expected student activities Some training exercices. Assessment methods Written examination without documents: Balance between question on the course content and exercices"}
{"courseId": "MGT-484", "name": "Applied probability & stochastic processes", "description": "This course focuses on dynamic models of random phenomena, and in particular, the most popular classes of such models: Markov chains and Markov decision processes. We will also study applications in queuing theory, finance, project management, etc. Content The following topics will tentatively be covered in the course: \u00a0 1.\u00a0Discrete-time Markov chains - Basic definitions, transition probabilities - Classification of states - Stationary and limiting distributions, convergence to equilibrium - Hitting times and absorption probabilities - Strong Markov property, law of large numbers for Markov chains \u00a0 2. Dynamic programming and optimal control - Basic principles - Linear systems and quadratic cost, Ricatti equation - Utility functions, dynamic portfolio allocation - Optimal stopping - Correlated disturbances, state augmentation Keywords Markov chains, Markov decision processes, dynamic programming, optimal control Learning Prerequisites Required courses A course in basic probability theory Important concepts to start the course Students should be familiar with basic concepts of probability theory, calculus and linear algebra Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Formulate Markov chain models for dynamic uncertain phenomenaFormulate Markov decision process models for dynamic decision problems under uncertaintyUse these models to structure real decision-making situationsCompute relevant performance measures for Markov modelsDevelop an awareness of the manifold uses of probability theory in management science Transversal skills Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals. Teaching methods Classical formal teaching interlaced with practical exercices Expected student activities Active participation in exercise sessions is essential. Assessment methods 20% midterm exam 80% final exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Bibliography Introduction to Probability Models, 10th edition, Sheldon M. Ross, Academic Press, 2009 Dynamic Programming and Optimal Control, 3rd edition, Dimitri P. Bertsekas, Athena Scientific, 2005 Introduction to Probability,\u00a0Dimitri P. Bertsekas\u00a0and John N. Tsitsiklis, Athena Scientific, 2002. \u00a0 Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Introduction to Probability Models / RossDynamic Programming and Optimal Control / BertsekasIntroduction to Probability / Bertsekas"}
{"courseId": "MGT-466", "name": "Negotiation techniques", "description": "The course presents the process of negotiation, two principle strategies and the tactics involved in successfully enacting them. It will also show how cultural differences impact the process of negotiation and what strategies to expect from different cultural groups Content Defining negotiation and the process Frames, goals and strategies How to plan a negotiation Employing strategies and tactics The impact of cultural difference on the process of negotiation Mid-term role-play and report The role of trust in negotiations Weekly role-play exercises and simulations Learning journal and self - reflection paper Final exam Keywords Negotiation, skills, interactive Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the two principle strategies of negotiation (integrative and distributive)Discuss the major differences between the two strategies and when it is appropriate to use one or the otherPerform both integrative and distributive negotiationsAssess / Evaluate the negotiation skills of self and counter partsExplain how cultural differences impact the process of negotiation and the style of negotiation employedDemonstrate the ability to enact a strategy and the attending tactics that are appropriate to a role-play scenarioCritique the performance of colleagues enacting a negotiation for appropriateness of the strategy, tactics and cultural approach. Transversal skills Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Interactive lecture, role-play, simulation, group-work, Expected student activities Attendance at class sessions, reading assigned chapters and articles, preparation of and participation in role-play activities, giving feedback to counter-parts, writing reports in small groups Assessment methods Continuous assessment combining: 20% class participation20% mid-term enactment reflection paper30% performance improvement journal entries and final reflection paper30% final enactment and report Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "COM-414", "name": "Satellite communications  systems and networks", "description": "Study of satellite communication (SATCOM) systems and IP satellite networks. Content Introduction to satellite communication - Systems and services (e.g. INMARSAT) - SATCOM transmitters, receivers and antennas - SATCOM link budget analysis Mobile satellite channel - Multipath, shadowing, Doppler spread, delay spread - Waveform design implications SATCOM multiple access and access control - FDMA, TDMA, CDMA and capacity and trades - Random access and MAC (e.g. FAMA, DAMA) SATCOM modulation, error correction and control - MPSK, MPSK TCM modulation and demodulation - Convolutional coding, Viterbi decoding, error control SATCOM antennas - Satellite phased array and mobile terminal antennas - Antenna diversity combining techniques TCP/IP over SATCOM - TCP/IP over satellite performance issues - Satellite IP enhancements, routing, congestion control IP/ATM over satellite networks -Introduction to IP/ATM over SATCOM - IP/ATM SATCOM network integration Emerging systems and issues - Broadand and Satellite UMTS (S-UMTS) - SATCOM system cost considerations Special topics in wireless communication - High Altitude Platforms (HAPs) Keywords SATCOM, satellite channel, SATCOM multiple access, modulation, antennas, TCP/IP, IP/ATM Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses No prerequisite courses Important concepts to start the course BS engineering Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Perform a SATCOM system design and analysis Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MATH-454", "name": "Parallel and high-performance computing", "description": "This course provides insight into a broad variety of High Performance Computing (HPC) concepts and the majority of modern HPC architectures. Moreover, the student will learn to have a feeling about what architectures are suited for several types of algorithms. Content HPC overview: Today's HPC: Beowulf-style clusters, massively parallel architectures, hybrid computing, accelerators HPC history and background HPC benchmarks explained Multicore systems Scaling Writing HPC code: Shared memory parallelism with OpenMP Distributed memory parallelism with MPI Hybrid programming with OpenMP and MPI GPGPU primer Profiling Keywords HPC, Parallelization, MPI, GPU \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Analysis, bachelor level Numerical analysis for engineers Matrix algebra Programming concepts in scientific computing \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Classify the types of HPC architectureIdentify codes suited for parallelizingApply the most commont parallelization techniquesImplement algorithms in parallelInvestigate the performances of parallel codeArgue about the differences in performances between theory and practiceOptimize the usage of hardware and software resources depending on the type of algorithm to parallelize Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Lectures, exercises, project work Expected student activities Attendance at lectures, completing exercises, writing a project \u00a0 Assessment methods Oral defense of project work \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-424", "name": "Plasma physics III", "description": "This course completes the knowledge in plasma physics that students have acquired in the prevoious two courses, with a discussion of different applications, in the fields of controlled fusion and magnetic confinement, astrophysical and space plasmas, and societal and industrial applications Content A. Fusion -Basics (the need for fusion, advantages, nuclear reactions, the Lawson criterion) AF -Design of a fusion reactor; Inertial confinement: physics issues and the reactor concept -Magnetic Confinement: MHD reminder, tokamak and other options (stellarator) -Magnetic Confinement: tokamak equilibrium, instabilities and operational limits -Magnetic Confinement: Heating and Current drive -Magnetic Confinement: Transport ' theoretical basis and phenomenology -Magnetic Confinement: Burning plasmas, ITER and the reactor (safety, Tritium,') \u00a0 B. Plasma applications -The basics of plasma discharges for applications -Examples of plasma applications \u00a0 C. Plasmas in nature (3 lessons - Dr. Ivo Furno) -Plasma astrophysics -Space plasmas -Joint problems of space and fusion plasmas ' Magnetic reconnection and particle acceleration \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Electrodynamics, Plasma physics I and II Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design the main elements of a magnetic confinement systemDescribe various applications of plasma physicsIdentify the main components and physics issues of a magnetic fusion reactorDescribe the main scientific issues in space and astrophysical plasmasDescribe the main scientific issues in plasma applications Teaching methods Ex cathedra and exercises in class Assessment methods oral exam"}
{"courseId": "ME-409", "name": "Energy conversion and renewable energy", "description": "The goal of the lecture is to present the principles of the energy conversion for conventional and renewable energy resources and to explain the most important parameters that define the energy conversion efficiency, resources implications and economics of the energy conversion technologies. Content Overview of energy stakesThermodynamic principles relevant for energy conversion systems, review of thermodynamic power cycles, heat pumps and refrigeration cycles, co-generationCarbon capture and sequestrationRenewable energy vectors, their physical principles and essential equations: Solar (photovoltaics and thermal - collectors/concentrators), geothermal, biomass (a.o. gasification, biogases, liquid biofuels), hydro, windFuel cells and hydrogen as energy vectorStorage of energy: Batteries, compressed air, pumped hydro, thermal storageIntegrated urban systems Keywords Energy conversion, renewable energy Learning Prerequisites Required courses Physics IPhysics II Important concepts to start the course Conservation principles (energy, mass, momentum) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the efficiency and the main emission sources of energy conversion processesQuantify the efficiency and the main emission sources of energy conversion processesModel energy conversion systems and industrial processesDraw the energy balances of an energy conversion systemElaborate energy conversion scenariosDescribe the principles and limitations of the main energy conversion technologiesCompare energy conversion systems Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingWrite a scientific or technical report.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles. Assessment methods Written exam (66%) and a project report (34%)."}
{"courseId": "MICRO-421", "name": "Image optics", "description": "Introduction to optical imaging systems and methods such as wide field, confocal and fluorescence microscopy. Introduction to statistical optics (coherence, detection) and presentation of applications in microscopy, medicine and research. Content Revision of geometrical, matrix and wave optics Point-spread function and optical transfer functions of imaging systems Temporal and spatial coherence: optical coherence tomography Detection of light: noise sources, detectors Speckles Wide field microscopy: dark field, phase and polarization contrast Ray-tracing Transverse and chromatic aberrations: image quality Advanced microscopy: confocal and fluorescence microscopy Confocal microscopy Keywords Optical microscopy, spatial frequency, coherence, aberrations, numerical aperture, resolution and contrast. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Analysis IV, Linear algebra, General physics III/IV, Advanced optics. Recommended courses Signals and systems, Image processing. Important concepts to start the course Matrix calculations, Fourier transformation, electromagnetic waves, refraction and reflection, polarization, signal filtering, basics of geometrical optics. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Sketch optical systems (thin and thick)Estimate the resolution of imaging systems.Analyze imaging systems and the image quality.Characterize the elements of imaging systems. Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods Lecturing with exercises. Expected student activities Following the lecturing and solving the exercises regularly is necessary for mastering the course contents. The solutions of the exercises are discussed at the next lecture. The student is invited to find his/her own solutions and to discuss them with the assistants. Assessment methods Oral exam: drawing a question, expose and discuss. 2-3 different topics will be discussed. Notes: One page (double side). Supervision Others Possible to take dates. Resources Bibliography B.A. Saleh and M.C. Teich, Fundamental of photonics (1991). A.K. Ghatak and K. Thyagarajan, Optical electronics (1989). J.W. Goodman, Statistical optics (2000). J.W. Goodman, Introduction to Fourier optics (1996). Max Born and Emil Wolf, Principles of optics: electromagnetic theory of propagation, interference and diffraction of light (1980). Min Gu, Principles of three-dimensional imaging in confocal microscopes (1996). Jos\u00e9-Philippe P\u00e9rez, Optique: fondements et applications (2004). Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Introduction to Fourier optics / GoodmanOptical electronics / GhatakPrinciples of optics / Born Fundamental of photonics / Saleh Optique: fondements et applications / Perez Principles of three-dimensional imaging in confocal microscopes / Gu Statistical optics / Goodman Notes/Handbook Script covering geometrical and matrix optics, Fourier optics, microscopy and fluorescence. Script chapters and course slides are published on Moodle."}
{"courseId": "FIN-602", "name": "Financial Econometrics (EDFI)", "description": "Knowledge of the econometric tools that are essential to estimate financial models both for asset pricing and for forecasting purposes will be given. The course will focus on the empirical techniques most often used in the analysis of financial markets and how they are applied to actual market data. Content Characteristics of Financial Time Series CAPM and Multi-Factor models Efficient Markets Hypothesis Modeling Volatility: GARCH Models Modeling Non-normality Multivariate Models Assessment methods Written exam."}
{"courseId": "CH-492", "name": "Interdisciplinary / disciplinary project for chemical master", "description": "Interdisciplinary Laboratory Projects - ISIC Content Projects: - Development of peptide macrocycle therapeutics - Carbonic anhydrase: expression & purification; enzymatic esterase assays, CO2 hydration ' computational studies - How '-Conjugation Patterns Control the Conductance of the Single Molecule Junctions Laboratory for Computational Molecular Design Junction Conductance. - Electrochemical CO2 reduction on nanostructured surfaces in a flow cell - CO2 binding on surfaces - CO2 absorption from air - CO2 binding in complex nanostructures - Recycling of Dye-sensitized Solar Cells - Labelling Strategies Using Alkynyl Benziodoxolone Reagents for Single Molecule Spectroscopy - Opto-electronic and transient optical characterisation of water splitting photoanodes based on BBL (BBL: poly[benzimidazobenzophenanthroline]) - Hydrogen storage cycle: CO2 hydrogenation and formic acid decomposition - Electrochemistry of novel counter electrode materials and novel redox mediators for dye-sensitized solar cells Learning Prerequisites Required courses inorganic chemistry organic chemistry physical chemistry biochemistry Recommended courses Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: development and testing of new CE materials based on metallic substrates.Computational methodsElaborate Photochemistry and PhotophysicsReason Solar energy conversion priciples Teaching methods Theory, and experimental techniques. Expected student activities Literature search, experimental methods, learning new concepts, writing reports and presentation Assessment methods 50% research work, 30% writing report, 20 % oral presentation"}
{"courseId": "EE-593", "name": "Social media", "description": "The objective is to enable students to critically apprehend the Human Computer Interaction (HCI) challenges associated with the design and the exploitation of social media platforms. Content \u00a0 Social media platforms and the long tail (definition and typology) Usability and adoption of social media platforms Web 2.0 features and adoption factors Privacy, trust and reputation models Identities, traces, and Web analytics Interplay, between platforms and communities (interdisciplinary perspective) Opportunities, requirements and constraints for organization and enterprises Participatory design methodologies Future ad hoc social applications \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose DesignCritiqueDefend Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Negotiate effectively within the group.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals. Teaching methods Lectures, invited speakers, individual work and teamwork Assessment methods One individual project and one teamwork with combined peer and expert assesment (reports and presentations) Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "FIN-505", "name": "Fixed income analysis", "description": "This course provides you with an introduction to the valuation of fixed income securities, the management and hedging of fixed income portfolios and the valuation and usage of fixed income derivatives. Content The course covers the valuation, modeling and risk management of\u00a0fixed income securities and fixed income derivatives such as pure discount bonds, coupon bonds, callable bonds, floating rate notes,\u00a0interest rate swaps, caps, floors, swaptions. Keywords Interest rates, term structure, interest rate risk, bonds, derivatives. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Derivatives Econometrics Introduction to finance Stochastic calculus I Stochastic calculus II Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the various notions of interest rates and related basic productsApply the basic tools duration and convexity for fixed income risk managementDerive an estimated term structure from market dataExplain the Heath-Jarrow-\u0080\u0094Morton framework, the log-normal LIBOR market model, and their differencesReconstruct the implied volatility surface for caps, floors, and swaptions from market dataImplement some basic stochastic interest rate models, including the Vasicek and CIR short rate models, as well as the log-normal LIBOR market modelDefine an affine diffusion process on the canonical state space, and implement a two-factor affine term structure modelDevelop a basic stochastic fixed income derivative frameworkApply the industry standard Black and Bachelier models for pricing and quoting caps, floors, and swaptionsExplain the range of applicability and limitations of the standard stochastic interest rate models Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Lectures, exercises, homework Assessment methods 20% Homework assignments30% Midterm examination50% Final examination\u00a0Midterm and final exams are open book (only lecture notes) Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "CS-206", "name": "Parallelism and concurrency", "description": "The course introduces parallel programming models, algorithms, and data structures, map-reduce frameworks and their use for data analysis, as well as shared-memory concurrency. Content Parallel programming & execution models Functional parallelism Data-level parallelism Threads and fork/join parallelism Synchronization Cache coherence Memory models Threads and Shared Memory in Java Performance optimization Keywords Parallelism, threads, synchronization, locks, memory models. Learning Prerequisites Required courses ' Functional programming (CS-210) ' Algorithms (CS-250)\u00a0 ' Computer Architecture (CS-208) Recommended courses System oriented programming (CS-207) Important concepts to start the course Functional programming and functional data structures Algorithms and data structures Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Construct parallel software.Perform tuning parallel software. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, labs, exercices Assessment methods With continuous control"}
{"courseId": "ENG-602", "name": "Optical fibers and fiber devices", "description": "The course provides basics on optical waveguides, and components, their characterization including recent applications in telecom and sensing as well as laboratory experience on optical fiber handling and characterization. Content materials for optical waveguides basics of optical waveguides (planar, circular) coupled mode theory waveguide technology basic devices including fiber Bragg gratings applications of optical waveguides fiber optic sensors photonic crystal fibers hands-on fiber handling, fiber and fiber Bragg grating characterization, FBG sensors Keywords Waveguides, optical fibers and devices, fiber Bragg gratings, optical fiber sensors Learning Prerequisites Required courses Required prior knowledge: Basics in physics (electrodynamics, waves)Basics in optics (light wave, diffraction, lasers)"}
{"courseId": "CH-725", "name": "Surface and thin films processes", "description": "Giving a basic knowledge of modern nanoscale thin film technology, characterisation techniques, emerging thin film materials,applications. To learn essential fundamental aspects&physical principles of thin film nucleation&growth from the vapour phase, understand the link between processing-structure Content 1. Thermodynamic and kinetic theory concepts of surfaces in vacuum, statistical physics of adsorption/desorption at low coverage2. Physical and chemical vapour deposition principles, ion-surface interactions, momentum transfer, sputter yield, DC and RF sputtering3. Kinetic theory of gases and vapour, mean free path, condensation on substrate, atom-istic processes, thermal accommodation, binding, surface diffusion4. Nucleation and growth, surface energy, interface energy, cluster coalescence and de-pletion, island growth, layer by layer growth, film morphology, extended structure zone models5. Preferred orientation and texture; evolutionary selection model, fractal clustering and shadowing effects, surface energy and self-arrangement, elastic strain and total ener-gy minimization, adatom mobility and competitive growth6. Origin of stresses in thin films, self assembly and self organisation in nanostructure thin films7. X-ray diffraction techniques, electron and ion based spectroscopy methods to charac-terise thin films8. Nanomechanic, nanotribology and adhesion to underlying substrate9. Nanoscale engineering and design of thin films10. New insights from first-principle abinitio calculations11. Emerging thin films and applications Note Next session Fall semester 2017 Keywords Surfaces, thin films, sputtering, nucleation, growth, oxides, nitrides, nanocomposites Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Basic knowledge in condensed matter physic and chemistry"}
{"courseId": "MATH-600", "name": "Optimization and simulation", "description": "Master state-of-the art methods in discrete optimization and simulation. Work involves: - reading the material beforehand - class hours to discuss the material and solve problems - homework Content Part 1: Simulation Sheldon M. Ross (1997) Simulation Draws (Chapters 4 & 5) Discrete event simulation (Chapter 6) Statistical data analysis, bootstrapping (Chapter 7)\u00a0 Variance reduction techniques (Chapter 8)\u00a0 Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods (Chapter 10) \u00a0 Part 2: Optimization: heuristics Bierlaire M. (2015) Optimization: principle and algorithms\u00a0 Classical optimization problems (chapter 25)\u00a0 Greedy heuristics (section 27.1)\u00a0 Neighborhood ansd local search (section 27.2)\u00a0 Diversification (sections 27.3 and 27.4) Note 5 weeks on nonlinear optimization 8 weeks on simulation Keywords optimization, simulation Learning Prerequisites Required courses Analysis, algebra, probability and statistics, Matlab or Octave"}
{"courseId": "MGT-481", "name": "Financial & managerial accounting", "description": "The aims of the course are to explain how information helps investors to analyze the financial profile of a company, and to provide analytical tools for assisting managers in evaluating various decisions within economic organizations. Content The main financial statements Basic accounting concepts, techniques and corporate annual reports Essential concepts and techniques of cost accounting and their application to the business The ways and means by which cost accounting techniques are brought to bear on the operational decision-making process that enable operating managers in making effective economic decisions Implementation of the budgeting process and financial performance measurement Measurement of the global performance Keywords Financial accounting, managerial accounting, management control Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain major accounting conceptsAnalyze the financial statements of a companyAnalyze accounting information to manage a project or a departmentInterpret major accounting documentsElaborate and manage a budgetEstimate the performance of a project or a department Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods Lectures, discussions/case studies. Expected student activities Class attendance, exercises and cases Assessment methods 50% Mid-term exam (closed-book) 50% Final written exam (closed-book)"}
{"courseId": "MGT-411", "name": "Innovation management", "description": "This is a collection of lectures on \"structured innovation systems,\" codified approaches to stimulating and managing the process of innovation. Some of the systems to be covered will be Design Thinking, Open Innovation, Crowdsourcing, TRIZ, Lean Innovation, and System Modeling Language. Content The intent of this course is to provide the technology manager with a toolbox of methods for approaching different innovation projects. Depending upon the type, method or goal of the desired innovation, an effective manager can implement different systems. Each lecture, or, for more detailed subjects, each set of lectures, will function as stand-alone units. Lectures will cover Design Thinking, Open Innovation, Crowdsourcing, TRIZ, Lean Innovation, and System Modeling Language, among others. By the end of the course, the student should be able to compare and contrast the various systems and qualify why a given project might be better suited to what innovation system. \u00a0 Keywords Innovation management; innovation systems; new product development;\u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses MGT-414 Technology & Innovation Strategy Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Compare various innovation management tools andContrast their application in context of the desired outcome.Assess / Evaluate the practicability of various innovation tools in relation to the nature of the required innovative outcome.Formulate an appropriate innovation management plan.Argue in favor of your selected plan.Integrate aspects of multiple innovation approaches.Specify how innovation systems can benefit the firm.Structure an innovation plan. Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Summarize an article or a technical report.Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Take account of the social and human dimensions of the engineering profession.Respect relevant legal guidelines and ethical codes for the profession. Teaching methods Case method, supplemented with lectures, films and external speakers. Expected student activities Attend all classes Read all material assigned for the course Participate actively in class discussions Participate in and contribute equally to group assignments. Read and prepare case studies (individual) Assessment methods Continuous assessment combining: 25% Class participation 35% Group deliverables 40% Exam during the exam period Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MGT-690(A)", "name": "Field Research Project A", "description": "Contact the EDMT administration for enrollment please"}
{"courseId": "EE-451", "name": "Image analysis and pattern recognition", "description": "This course gives an introduction to the main methods of image analysis and pattern recognition. Content IntroductionDigital image acquisition and properties.Pre-processing: geometric transforms, linear filtering, image restoration.Introduction to Mathematical MorphologyExamples and applications\u00a0Segmentation and object extractionThresholding, edge detection, region detection.Segmentation by active contours. Applications in medical image segmentation.\u00a0Shape representation and descriptionContour-based representation, region-based representation. Morphological skeletons\u00a0Shape recognitionStatistical shape recognition, Bayesian classification, linear and non-linear classifiers, perceptrons, neural networks and unsupervised classifiers.Applications.\u00a0Practical works on computers Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Introduction to signal processing, Image processing Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Use Image pre-processing methodsUse image segmentation methodsChoose shape description methods appropriate to a problemUse classification methods appropriate to a problem Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Make an oral presentation.Summarize an article or a technical report.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles. Teaching methods Ex cathedra and practical work and oral presentation by the students Assessment methods Continuous control Resources Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Image Processing, Analysis and Machine Vision / SonkaReconnaissance des formes et analyse de sc\u00e8nes / Kunt"}
{"courseId": "FIN-408", "name": "Stochastic calculus I", "description": "This course is an introduction to probability theory and stochastic calculus. It starts with basic notions of probability, characteristic functions and limit theorems. Then, we study stochastic processes and martingales in discrete and continuous time, including Brownian motion and Ito calculus. Content 1. Probability review (4 weeks) Probability spaces - sigma algebras - random variables - probability measures - independence - Jensen inequality and other basic inequalities for expectations - law of large numbers - central limit theorem - large deviations \u00a0 2. Discrete time processes (4 weeks)Random walks - Markov chains - calculations with stopping times - filtrations - martingales - Gaussian distributions and discrete time Kalman filtering \u00a0 3. Continuous time processes (3 weeks)Brownian motion - continuous filtrations - Gaussian processes - Kolmogorov's theorem - martingales - convergence - optional sampling - Levy's theorem - Doob's theorems - quadratic variation \u00a0 4. Stochastic calculus (3 weeks)Ito's integral - Ito's isometry - Ito's formula - Ito's processes - stochastic differential equations Keywords Stochastic calculus, probability Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Basic analysis, some understanding of probability Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Work out / Determine moment generating functions, conditional moment generating functions, conditional and unconditional moments for multi-dimensional random vectors. Apply the Law of Large Numbers and the Central Limit Theorem.Analyze multi-dimensional Gaussian distributions and derive the corresponding conditional expectations and conditional variances.Apply Kalman filter to a general linear model and derive the filter and the optimal Kalman gain.Work out / Determine basic properties and moment generating functions of stopping times for general random walks and Markov chains. Derive the martingale representation property for binomial filtration.Derive basic properties of Brownian motion and the corresponding martingales. Formulate Levy Theorem and its implications. Describe Brownian motion as a continuous time limit of a random walk (Donsker'\u0080\u0099 theorem).Operate Ito formula and use it to derive useful properties for any given function of a multi-dimensional Ito process.Describe an Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process, derive its basic properties, and use it to compute expectations and transition densities, both for stationary and non-stationary processes.Apply Ito representation theorem and understand its link to market completeness. Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions. Teaching methods Ex cathedra classes / exercise sessions Assessment methods 20% continuous control40% written mid-term exam40% written final exam Supervision Assistants Yes Resources Bibliography R. Durrett, \"Stochastic Calculus. A Practical Introduction\", CRC Press, 1996. B. \u00d8ksendal, \"Stochastic Differential Equations. An Introduction with Applications\", Springer Verlag, 2003. S. Shreve, \"Stochastic Calculus for Finance\" (2 volumes), Springer Verlag, 2004. I. Karatzas and S. Shreve, Brownian Motion and Stochastic Calculus. Springer Verlag, 1998. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Stochastic Calculus for Finance I / ShreveStochastic Calculus for Finance II / ShreveStochastic Differential Equations / \u00d8ksendalStochastic Calculus / DurrettBrownian Motion and Stochastic Calculus / Karatzas"}
{"courseId": "MSE-611", "name": "Piezoelectric materials, properties and devices", "description": "The students acquire knowledge on structure-property relations of piezoelectric and related materials (ferroelectrics, relaxors). Different material classes (ceramics, crystals, composites, polymers) are discussed in view of applications in sensors, actuators, high frequency transducers and others. Content Since the backround and interest of the attendeeds varies from year to year, the lectures' content is adapted each time to the partcipants as much as this is possible. The discussed topics may include but are not limited to:1. Piezoelectric effect. Thermodynamic relations. Electromechanical coupling coefficients. Constitutive equations.Boundary conditions.2. Piezoelectric materials: single crystals, ceramics, polymers and composites. New piezoelectric materials.3. Piezoelectric anisotropy. Symmetry and piezoelectricity.4. Concept of morphotropic phase boundary. Soft and hard piezoelectrics.5. Piezoelectric resonance.6. Equivalent circuits.7. Physical phenomena that can contribute to the piezoelectric effect. Piezoelectric hysteresis, nonlinearity, creepand relaxation.8. Piezoelectric actuators and motors.9. Piezoelectric sensors. Quasistatic and resonance mode of operation.10. High frequency piezoelectric transducers for medical imaging. Concept of matching layers. Ultrasonic arrays.Doppler probes.11. Surface acoustic wave effect and devices.12. Other types of electro-mechanical and magneto-electro-mechanical coupling (electrostriction, flexoelectricity, strain mediated magneto-electric effect) Note Maximum number of participants: 30 Keywords Piezoelectric effect, piezoelectric materials, actuators, sensors, crystals, ceramics, transducers power transducers, surface acoustic wave effect Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses physics and mathematics on the bachelor level of EPFL, basic materials science"}
{"courseId": "ENV-425", "name": "Limnology", "description": "Focus is on lakes, rivers and reservoirs as aquatic systems. Specific is the quantitative description / analyse of physical, biological, biogeochemical and sedimentological processes and interactions. The goal is to understand the relevant processes (focus on water quality) from a practical point. Content The themes comprise: themes 1. Water, nutrient and salt balances (critical loads, one-box models, flux analysis) 2. Physical environment (density, stratification, mixing, advection, diffusion, heat fluxes, wind forcing\u00a0and climate effects) 3. Mixing regimes (boundary layers, stratified turbulence, double diffusion) 4. Geochemical environment (photosynthesis, remineralisation, sedimentation, biogeochemical elemental cycling, particles, oxygen depletion; anaerobic processes) 5. Biological environment (photosynthesis (light, nutrients), phytoplankton, zooplankton, remineralisation), 6. Sedimentation processes and particle distributions 7. System analysis combining advection, diffusion, and reactions 8. Limnological research techniques 9. Environmental issues (eutrophication, pollution, WRM). \u00a0 \u00a0 Keywords Natural water resources, aquatic system production, biogeochemical cycling, water quality, plankton, water layers Learning Prerequisites Required courses BSc completed. Basic courses in hydrology, physics and mathematics; interest in system analysis and quantitative formulations Recommended courses System analysis, hydrology, aquatic geochemistry, aquatic biology. Important concepts to start the course Numerical quantification of processes in stratified waters Aquatic system analysis Linking physical boundary conditions to quantitative flux estimates of matter and momentum Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Quantify primary production, system net production and net sedimentation based on nutrient inputsStructure models of lake-internal matter fluxesPredict vertical structures of water quality parameters, such as oxygen, nutrients, and plankton.Estimate sediment-to-water (and vice versa) dissolved substances fluxes. Teaching methods 2 hrs per week of instructions (basic knowledge and concepts) and 2 hrs per week of problem solving. Problem solving will be based on real data and practical questions. The goal is to learn the real lake- and reservoir-processes by addressing concrete quantitative questions which can be generalized. Motivation is given by scientific as well as practical engineering problems. Expected student activities One set of problems per week of homework, which will be digested and generalized in class. The students are expected not only to solve the problem as homework, but also to present and discuss the solutions in class. Assessment methods Feedback on the problem solving each week by the assistants. Final oral exam. Supervision Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "EE-515", "name": "Fundamentals of biosensors and electronic biochips", "description": "The labels \"biosensor\"\u0080\u009d and \"eBiochip\" have been employed to refer to the most diverse systems and in several fields of application. The course is meant not only to provide means to dig into this sea but also a thoughtful understanding of the detection principles and a design perspective. Content PART I Fundamentals \u00a7Ch 0 Laying the foundations. \u00a7More definitions (assay, diagnostics, '); \u00a7Parameters qualifying a sensor. \u00a7Ch 1 Possible configurations of a biosensing system.\u00a0 \u00a7Area confined and surface confined. \u00a7Miniaturization consequences \u00a7Ch 2 The solid/liquid interface \u00a7Electrical properties \u00a7Optical properties \u00a7Surface chemistry to make a surface sense. Specificity\u00a0 \u00a7Ch 3 Systems working in dynamic regime \u00a0 \u00a7Sensors in flow chambers or in channels \u00a7Large consequences of going Nano PART 2 Detection principles and analysis \u00a7 Detection principles \u00a7Charge transfer \u00a7 Probing interface electrical parameters \u00a7 Probing interface optical parameters \u00a7 Characterizing mass change on a surface \u00a7 Perturbation of electrical field in hybrid electron devices (transistor) \u00a7Case studies of micro/nanosensors and high throughput systems Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Understanding Statistics and Experimental Design\u00a0 Related courses: BioMEMS Bioanalytics and analytical sensors \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course The course is hystorically addressed to students with many sorts of background. When needed, the premises for the understanding of certain topics are outlined and discussed during the course. In particular, the course would require some familiarity with the fundamentals of molecular biology and a solid physics background.\u00a0 Instrumental prerequisites that span from electrode/solution interfaces, to binding kinetics, to electrical characterization of biological elements, to microelectronic proccesses are recalled and integrated in the course material.\u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the component of a biosensing systems and the possible configurationsAdvise on available biosensing technologies and level of integration depending on the applicationDiscuss the consequences of miniaturization n biosensing systemsDescribe in details some examples of commercial biosensing techniquesDesign biosensing systems with respect to their size Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingUse both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods \u00a73 credits \u00a72/3 Frontal lecture. 1/3 exercises\u00a0 Expected student activities \u00a7Come to classes \u00a7Study assigned material\u00a0 \u00a7Prepare exercise before the session Assessment methods \u00a0 \u00a7Written exam (end of the semester) \u00a0 Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Others office hours on appointment\u00a0"}
{"courseId": "COM-303", "name": "Signal processing for communications", "description": "Students learn digital signal processing theory, including discrete time, Fourier analysis, filter design, sampling, interpolation and quantization; they are introduced to image processing and data communication system design. Content Basic discrete-time signals and systems: signal classes and operations on discrete-time signals, signals as vectors in Hilbert space Fourier Analysis: properties of Fourier transforms, DFT, DTFT; FFT. Discrete-Time Systems: LTI filters, convolution and modulation; difference equations; FIR vs IIR, stability issues. Z-transform: properties and regions of convergence, applications to linear systems. Filter Design: FIR design methods, IIR design methods, filter structures. Stochastic Signal Processing: random processes, spectral representation. Interpolation and Sampling: the continuous-time paradigm, interpolationthe sampling theorem, aliasing. Quantization: A/D and D/A converters. Multi-rate signal processing: upsampling and downsampling, oversampling. Multi-dimensional signals and processing: introduction to Image Processing. Practical applications: digital communication system design, ADSL. Keywords signal processing, discrete-time, continuous-time, filter, filter design, sampling, aliasing, DSP, Fourier transform, FFT, modem, ADSL Learning Prerequisites Required courses calculus, linear algebra Recommended courses Circuits and systems, basic probability theory Important concepts to start the course vectors and vector spaces, functions and sequences, infinite series Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Identify signals and signal typesRecognize signal processing problemsApply the correct analysis tools to specific signalsCheck system stabilityManipulate rational transfer functionsImplement signal processing algorithmsDesign digital filtersInterpret complex signal processing systems Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods Course with exercises in class and on the computer Expected student activities complete weekly homework, write numerical routines to implement core concepts Assessment methods midterm exam for bonus points and final exam for final grade. Resources Bibliography Signal processing for Communications, EPFL Press, 2008, by P. Prandoni and M. Vetterli. The book is available for sale in printed form online and in bookstores; in iBook format on the Apple store and is also available as a free pdf file at http://www.sp4comm.org/ Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Signal processing for Communications / Prandoni Websites http://lcav.epfl.ch/sp4commhttp://www.sp4comm.org/"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-618", "name": "Soft Microsystems Processing and Devices", "description": "Amongst others, following topics will be covered during the course: - Soft Microsystems and Electronics - Electroactive polymers - Printed electronics and microsystems - Inkjet printing of polymers - Stretchable electronics - Mechanical reliability Content Introduction to Soft Microsystems and Electronics and conclusion:- Introduction to the course objectives, content, program, lecturers, and evaluation- Overview on soft microsystems and electronics devices and their processing: status, opportunities and challenges- R&D and commercial status, examples of applications- Concluding remarks and discussion Electroactive polymersDielectric elastomer actuators (DEAs) are an emerging actuation technology which is inherent lightweight and compliant, enabling the development of unique and versatile devices with applications ranging from energy harvesting, to soft robotics, to tools for cellular biology, to haptics. The student will learn the basic physical principles of dielectric electroactive polymer actuators, the properties and processing of the elastomers and stretchable electrodes, the control and self-sensing methods, and an overview of different application areas and current research topics. Printed electronics and microsystemsSome general sentences and some bullet points:- Introduction to printed electronics: advantages and disavantages, comparison and complementarity with Si technology- Materials: functional inks and substrates- Additive and large area manufacturing: Printing and curing/sintering techniques- Examples of printed electronics, optoelectronics, and sensing devices and systems- Challenges and R&D perspectives Inkjet printing of polymersInkjet Printing is a key enabling technology that goes well beyond the established paper printing. In recent years, novel areas have matured, where printing techniques find increasingly a pathway from R&D to industrial manufacturing. These areas not only include organic and printed opto-electronics, but also micro-optical, bio-medical, MEMS fabrication and packaging, and 3D rapid prototyping. This lecture will provide an introduction to ink-jet printing technologies in the various existing forms for applications in printed electronics, materials science and life-sciences: History of inkjet printing and some examples of equipment- Methods of producing mono-disperse micro drops: The theory behind drop-on-demand printing. Limits- Printing of polymers, particularities- Applications in manufacturing and engineering: SU-8, nano-composites, micro-optics, organic electronic materials, bio-printing, tissue mimetics, etc. Stretchable electronicsStretchable electronics is a new evolution of microelectronics. Integrated circuits are no longer constrained to a flat, rigid carrier but rather incorporated within highly deformable carriers thus enabling the circuits to morph, adapting their shape by flexing, stretching or wrinkling.In this lecture, we will review how materials and fabrication process inspired from those used in microelectronics and MEMS can be implemented to fabricate electronic devices and circuits on soft, skin-like substrates. Further, strategies for the mechanical design ensuring the electromechanical integrity of the stretchable circuits will be presented. Examples of microfabricated stretchable electronics designed for robotics and prosthetic applications will illustrate the lecture.- Integrated circuits of arbitrary shapesa. Examples from academiab. First steps in industry- Mechanical strains produced by shaping- Materials and processes for stretchable electronics- Electromechanical characterisation \u00a0 Mechanical reliabilitySoft microsystem and flexible electronic devices are often based on multilayer structures with a very high property contrast between material constituents, yet they should not distort during processing or crack upon bending or stretching. The lecture will present the key factors, which control the mechanical integrity of such structures. It will also provide the essential ingredients to design and produce reliable devices on soft substrates.- Critical radius and critical strain- Residual stresses and strains- Cracking under Keywords Soft MEMS, Microsystems, Actuators, Flexible and strechable electronics, Printing, Polymer"}
{"courseId": "EE-558", "name": "A Network Tour of Data Science", "description": "This course offers an introduction to algorithms in data science and network analysis. A major goal is to design and analyze graph-based algorithms in the context of learning, recommendation, visualization, and representation. The course provides coding exercices on real-world cases. Content Context In the last decade, our information society has mutated into a data society, where the volume of worldwide data doubles every 1.5 years. How to make sense of such tremendous volume of data? Developing effective techniques to extract meaningful information from large-scale and high-dimensional dataset has become essential for the success of business, government and science. Objective The goal of this course is to provide a broad introduction to effective algorithms in data science and network analysis. A major effort will be given to show that existing data analysis techniques can be defined and enhanced on graphs. Graphs encode complex structures like cerebral connection, stock exchange, and social network. Strong mathematical tools have been developed based on linear and non-linear graph spectral harmonic analysis to advance the standard data analysis algorithms. Main topics of the course are networks, unsupervised and supervised learning, recommendation, visualization, sparse representation, multi-resolution analysis, neuron network, and large-scale computing. Structure The course is organized into two parts: lectures (2 hours) and coding exercises (1 hour). The essential objective of the exercises is to apply the theory on real-world cases. Evaluation Evaluation will be conducted on a continuous basis: homeworks and coding assignments. Bio Prof. Pierre Vandergheynst: Full professor of EE and CS. Developer of graph wavelets, a multi-resolution data analysis technique based on spectral harmonic analysis. Bio Dr. Xavier Bresson: Scientist Researcher in EE. Developer of total variation clustering, an exact relaxation technique for graph balanced cut problems. Publications at NIPS, ICML, JMLR. Invited Research Fellow at the 2014 workshop \"Network Science and Graph algorithms\", ICERM, Brown, US and the 2017 Workshop on 'Variational Methods, New Optimization Techniques and Fast Numerical Algorithms', Isaac Newton Institute, Cambridge, UK. Outline of the 14 weeks See Annex or this link: https://www.dropbox.com/s/tpw9xd7my7374ym/outline_course_GDS.txt?dl=0\u00a0 \u00a0 Keywords data sci mining ence, machine learning, data Learning Prerequisites Required courses linear algebra, calculus, digital signal processing or equivallent"}
{"courseId": "CH-728", "name": "Mass spectrometry, principles and applications", "description": "The goal is to provide students with a complete overview of the principles and key applications of modern mass spectrometry and meet the current practical demand of EPFL researchers to improve structural analsis of molecules. Numerous instrumental aspects of mass spectrometry are described. Content The course program includes: Mass spectrometry basics (ionization techniques, mass analyszers and detectors) and applications Tandem mass spectrometry and hyphenation with separation (UPLC and GC) systems Fragmentation mechanisms/techniques and structural analsis for identification of compounds Fourier-Transform Mass spectrometry (Orbitrap and ICR mass analyzers) Quantification (absolute and relative) methods with low resolution (triple quadrupole) and high-resolution (QTOF and Orbitrap) instruments Analysis of biomolecules such as bottom-up and top-down MS for peptide/protein analysis, analysis of binding sites of metallated-ligands on peptides' Open-source tools for Advanced analysis of mass spectra Proteomics, lipidomics and metabolomics fields \u00a0 \u00a0The course includes practical work in mass spectrometry that will be given mostly in the Mass Spectrometry Service Facility of ISIC (SSMI, SB, EPFL) and in the Proteomic Core Facility (PCF, SV, EPFL). \u00a0 Note January and September 2017 (block) Full Keywords mass spectrometry, tandem mass spectrometry, High-resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS), liquid chromatography, Gas chromatography, quantification, proteomics, lipidomics, metabolomics, proteomics"}
{"courseId": "ENV-470", "name": "Development engineering", "description": "This course teaches the fundamentals of technologies for development (Development Engineering) to design, pilot, and evaluate appropriate, affordable and robust technologies to address sustainable development challenges (e.g. poverty, environmental degradation) in emerging and developing countries. Content Lectures: Week 1: Introduction to the course and to Development Engineering Week 2: Context analysis and identification of challenges and opportunities Week 3: Technological Development and Innovation for sustainable development and poverty reduction Week 4: Development Technologies (e.g. m-health) Week 5: Intervention design (human-centered design) and management: quantitative research methods for project design and management. Experimental and quasi-experimental designs Week 6: Intervention design and management (continued): Qualitative research methods for project design and management Week 7: Technological Development and Innovation: The sustainable and socially responsible value chain canvas: From engineering to marketing Week 8:\u00a0 Technological Development and Innovation (continued): The sustainable and socially responsible value chain canvas: From assembly to commissioning Week 9: Technological Development and Innovation (continued): The sustainable and socially responsible value chain canvas: From training to recycling and decommissioning Week 10: Deployment, Adopting/Mainstreaming and Scale-Up: Technology / technological intervention and innovation deployment, adopting/mainstreaming and scale-up Week 11: Deployment, Adopting/Mainstreaming and Scale-Up: Sustainable business models Week 12: Evaluation of Development Engineering and Innovation Interventions: From theory to practice Week 13: Evaluation of Development Engineering\u00a0 Interventions: From theory to practice (continued) Week 14: Course summary and presentation of deliverable\u00a0 Keywords Development, development engineering, developing countries, emerging countries, Global South, poverty reduction, social entrepreneurship, technologies for development, sustainable business models, design thinking, human-centered design, value chain canvas, scale-up Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the technology for development intervention cycleIntegrate the principles and elements of Development EngineeringDistinguish appropriate, affordable and robust devices, technologies or technological interventions for developmentDifferentiate the main development challenges faced by emerging and developing countries.Compare different approaches to technological development.Examine information in an interdisciplinary manner integrating the contributions and expertise of different disciplines.Identify sustainable solutions to complex problems.Apply the sustainable and socially responsible value chain canvas to specific contexts. Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Collect data.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Take account of the social and human dimensions of the engineering profession. Teaching methods Lectures (100% in English), group work/presentation, projection of film and discussion, and mandatory reading list. Expected student activities Homework, group work and presentation, mandatory reading of background material. Assessment methods Group work and presentation of deliverable (50%) Exam during the summer exam session (50%) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No Forum No Others Available for questions before the lectures."}
{"courseId": "MSE-464", "name": "Assembly techniques", "description": "Introduction to the assembly of materials by homogeneous or heterogeneous joints (welding, bonding, mechanical assembly). Mechanical and environmental resistance of joints. Content Metallic assemblies Assembly systems Brazing and welding Welding techniques Surface and interfacial phenomena Polymer assemblies Theoretical aspects of adhesion Principal classes of adhesives and their applications Properties of polymeric joints Polymer interdiffusion in plastic welding Mechanical methods of plastic joining Ceramic assemblies Techniques for ceramic/metal/glass joints Physical and chemical basis for\u00a0determining the properties of heterogeneous joints Typical applications Keywords Welding, brazing, adhesives, mechanical joining, polymers, ceramics, metals Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Polym\u00e8res, structures, propri\u00e9t\u00e9s, MSE-230, MX, Plummer Materials mechanics, MSE-205, MX, Bourban Deformation of materials, MSE-310, MX, Log\u00e9 Surfaces and interfaces, MSE-304, MX, Ceriotti \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course Basic physics and chemistry, simple mechanics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the basic pricinples of the different joining methodsRecognize specific characteristics of joints in the different classes of materials (metals, ceramics and plastics)Explain the advantages and disadvantages of different joining techniquesPerform simple structural analysis of mechanical jointsDiscriminate between different classes of adhesives and their applicationsChoose the best joining method for a given applicationChoose the best joining method for different materialsAnalyze the failure of a joint Transversal skills Collect data.Make an oral presentation.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, seminars, workshop demonstration, exercises Expected student activities Attendance at lectures and workshop demonstration, participation in exercises Assessment methods Intermediate tests on metals and ceramics and\u00a0polymers presentation of a case study. The final mark is\u00a0the average of\u00a0the\u00a0average\u00a0mark\u00a0for the tests and the mark\u00a0for the case study (which hence\u00a0counts for 50 % of the overall mark) Supervision Office hours Yes Resources Websites http://my.epfl.ch"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-608", "name": "Nonlinear Optics", "description": "Basic principles of optics Content A selection of the following topics will be offered:\u00a0 Introduction / overview of nonlinear optical phenomena Wave description of nonlinear optical processes The intensity dependence of the refractive index Spontenaous and stimulated light scattering processes Electrooptic and photorefractive effects Optically induced damage Ultrafast Nonlinear processes \u00a0 Note Basic principles of optics (e.g. refractive index, snells law, electromagnetic waves) see Introduction to Modern Optics by Grant R Fowles as a work of reference Keywords nonlinear optics, second and third harmonic generation, optical fibers, solitons"}
{"courseId": "BIO-430", "name": "Multidisciplinary organization of medtechs/biotechs", "description": "This course introduces students to situations they will encounter in their future careers as project managers, executive or business leaders. Content Technical aspectsLegas aspectsRegulatory aspectsGLP-GMP aspectsStructureFinancial aspectsMarket aspects Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to:"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-610", "name": "Nonlinear Spectroscopy", "description": "Molecular properties relevant for spectroscopy... Content Molecular properties relevant for spectroscopy Symmetry properties, space, time induced Susceptibility: Relation between molecular properties and macroscopic Optical properties Overview of nonlinear optical spectroscopies: SHG / SFG / CARS Nonlinear optical spectroscopy on planar surfaces Nonlinear optical spectroscopy on particle surfaces"}
{"courseId": "EE-521", "name": "Advanced analog and RF integrated circuits design II", "description": "This course covers the design of integrated RF circuits focusing on the main components and circuits required to build a radio implemented in CMOS technology. The main objective is to understand RF transceivers and be able to design basic RF integrated circuits. Content 1)Introduction : overview of wireless principles. 2)Distortion and Intermodulation : origin of distortion; characterization of distortion at RF; intermodulation, intercept points. 3)Modulation and Detection: review of the basic analog and digital modulations. 4)Modeling of Active and Passive Devices at RF : MOS and bipolar transistors; integrated R L C components. 5)Noise at RF : classical noisy two-port theory; examples of noise calculations in RF circuits. 6)Basic ReceiverArchitectures : super-heterodyne; low-IF; direct conversion; super-regenerative. 7)Front-end circuits : low-noise amplifier (LNA); mixers. 8)Oscillators : basic tuned oscillators (Colpitts, Pierce, Clapp, cross-coupled); phase-noise, high-Q oscillators. 9)RF Power Amplifiers : class A, AB, B, and C power amplifiers; class D, E and F amplifiers. Keywords RF integrated circuits, RF-CMOS, radio, transceivers Learning Prerequisites Required courses EE-331 Circuits et syst\u00e8mes \u00e9lectroniques I,II EE-520 Advanced analog and RF integrated circuits I Recommended courses EE-320 Circuits int\u00e9gr\u00e9s I Important concepts to start the course Linear circuits analysis, Fourier and Laplace transforms, small-signal schematic, basic circuits analysis, noise calculation in basic circuits. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze basic RF circuits.Design simple RF circuits.Choose an appropriate radio architecture. Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Ex cathedra and exercices Expected student activities Solve several exercises. Assessment methods Written Resources Notes/Handbook Lecture notes, technical papers. Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=232"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-711", "name": "RF MEMS for communications applications", "description": "This course provides an overview of RF MEMS/NEMS switches, passives, resonators, phase shifters and filters including hybrid devices (resonant-gate MOS transistor), carbon and phase-change materials, heterogeneous integration and a tutorial in S-parameters measurements and calibration techniques. Content ' RF MEMS switches: capacitive, contact, technology, electromechanical and RF design and modelling, figures of merit, reliability and advanced packaging. ' RF MEMS passives for reconfigurable and/or tunable transceiver/receiver architectures. Technology, CMOS compatibility and heterogeneous integration. Through silicon vias technology for 3D RF inductors. ' MEMS resonators and FBARs for essential circuit functions: filtering, mixing and frequency reference. Design, technology and Figures of merit. Resonator arrays and techniques for improvement of motional resistance. Resonant-gate MOS transistor: (i) hybrid MEMS-MOS switch, (ii) hybrid MEMS-MOS resonator with intrinsic gain and (iii) 1T memory cell. ' RF MEMS Phase shitfters and band-pass and band-stop filters: types, technology and design ' Carbon Nanotubes and Graphene based RF NEMS ' Phase change materials as Vanadium dioxide for communication applications ' Tutorial in S-parameters measurements and calibration techniques (SOLT and TRL) Keywords RF MEMS, MEMS passives, MEMS resonators, FBAR, NEMS, Resonant-gate transistor Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basic lectures in physics and electronics"}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-457", "name": "Fundamentals of traffic operations and control", "description": "The objectives of this course are to present the major elements of traffic operations and to develop basic skills in applying the fundamentals of traffic analysis and control. Students should be able to start applying these skills to model different aspects of congestion in urban systems. Content Introduction to fundamentals of urban traffic engineering, including data collection, analysis, and operations. Traffic engineering studies, traffic control devices, capacity and level of service analysis of freeways and urban streets for multimodal systems.\u00a0Performance models and modeling techniques: queuing theory, network analysis and simulation.\u00a0 Different levels of traffic modeling, micro- (car following), meso- (link level) and macro- (network level) .Design of control strategies for simple systems. Application of traffic operations to the design of isolated intersection and coordinated traffic signal control systems. Emission models, Public Transportation Operations. \u00a0 Keywords traffic engineering, traffic flow theory, traffic management, ramp metering, public transportation, operations Learning Prerequisites Required courses Transportation Systems Engineering (GC-351) or Consent of the Instructor Important concepts to start the course A good level of knowledge in mathematics and programming as tought in the first 2 years of Civil Engineering program. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate the performance of transport systemsOptimize the level of mobility in a cityAnalyze the different types of congestionApply control strategies in congested networksIllustrate with simple examples the complexity of transport systemsEstablish methodologies to model congestion Transversal skills Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Resolve conflicts in ways that are productive for the task and the people concerned.Respect relevant legal guidelines and ethical codes for the profession.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Collect data. Teaching methods Lectures with slides and/or board description, exercises, group projects, seminars by invited professor Assessment methods Mid-term exam, final exam, homeworks, laboratories (in groups)"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-302", "name": "Biophysics II", "description": "Understanding and modeling properties of living cells such as shape, motion and force generation in terms of fundamental laws of physics Content Introduction. Spatial and temporal scales and relevant physical forces at the cellular level. Viscous drag and adhesive forces. Overview of bioenergetics. The cell as out-of-equilibrium system. Mitochondria, transmembrane potential, proton-ATPase, and rotational electric motor of bacterial flagellum. Cytoskeleton, cell shape and motion. Actin filaments, microtubules and intermediate filaments. Filament polarity. Assembly mechanisms and models. Force generation by assembly. Molecular motors: kinesins, dyneins and myosins. Motor steps and forces. Microtubule-dependent motors in intracellular transport and mitosis. Myosins in muscle contraction and cell motion. Cell adhesion and traction forces. Interaction of the cytoskeleton with the membrane, hydrostatic pressure, membrane tension and shape. Cell symmetry breaking: asymmetric cell division, directional motion. Mechanisms: reaction-diffusion, mechanical feedback. PIP3-signaling system, Rho GTPases, feedback from actin flow. Directional sensing and chemotaxis. Keywords cell biophysics, cell motion, cytoskeleton, traction forces, molecular motors, actin, symmetry breaking, membrane tension, transmembrane potential Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses physics and mathematics at the introductory university level, general biology at the high school level Teaching methods Lectures, paper discussion, problem solving Expected student activities attending the lectures, completing exercises, reading and presenting recent papers in the field Assessment methods paper presentation, problem solving, oral exam"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-738", "name": "Quantum Field Theory Methods in Gravity and Cosmology", "description": "The aim of the course is to address several topics in the modern theory of gravity and cosmology, which involve in an essential way the quantum properties of fundamental fields. Content Topics to be covered: 1. Quantum fields in curved space-time \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 1. a) Hawking radiation of black holes and the information paradox \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 1. b) Production of particles in an expanding universe \u00a02. The theory of cosmic inflation \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 2. a) Production of primordial gravitational waves and density perturbations in the\u00a0 slow-roll model \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 2. b) Extensions of the simplest model: effective theory of inflation \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 2. c) Statistical properties of the primordial spectra"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-422", "name": "Lasers: theory and modern applications", "description": "This course gives an introduction to Lasers by both considering fundamental principles and applications. Topics that are covered include the theory of lasers, laser resonators and laser dynamics. In addition to the basic concepts, a variety of interesting laser systems and applications are covered Content 1. Introduction (Overview: History of the laser, Market application, Nobel Prizes,)- demo laser printer. 2. Basics of resonators and Gaussian beam optics. 3. Principle of laser operation: Lorentz model, dispersion theory. 4. Principle of laser operation: Laser oscillation, threshold, coherence. 5. Semiconductor and photonic nanostructured lasers 6. Laser dynamics : Laser oscillation, laser line-width, coherent population oscillations - AM, PM Noise. 7. (Gas and ) Solid state lasers Optical fibers 8. Fiber laser and amplifiers Optical fibers 9. Ultrafast lasers, Femtosecond laser Frequency Metrology, Mode locked lasers, autocorrelation, FTIR 10. Ultrafast lasers, Femtosecond laser Frequency Metrology, Mode locked lasers 11. Detection of laser light (detector basics) 12. Optical parametric oscillators (OPO), Raman Lasers 13. Tools of laser light manipulation Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course This course requires an understanding of introductory physics in wave theory (incl. complex numbers) and familiarity with Maxwell equations and electromagnetism. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Able to compute absorption cross-sectionexplain in details YAG, He-Ne, Ti-saphirre, external cavity lasers, fiber lasersKnow shot and thermal noise, laser linewidth, relaxation oscillationknow passive and active modelocking, methods to caracterize pulse durationKnow phase matching, method to obtain phase matchingknow parametric gain, singly and doubly resonant lasers Teaching methods 2 hours of class 1 hour of exercises Part of the class will be given via MOOC videos. Assessment methods Written exam. Homework will be given every week . Solutions will be handed out. Homework will not be graded.It is strongly advised to make the effort to do the homework weekly."}
{"courseId": "EE-613", "name": "Machine Learning for Engineers", "description": "The objective of this course is to give an overview of machine learning techniques used for real-world applications, and to teach how to implement and use them in practice. Content Fundamentals - Notion of learning, cross validation and performance evaluation - Recalls in probability and information theory - Optimization (gradient, newton, stochastic gradient, etc.) Generative models - Directed / non-directed models, conditional independence, naive Bayesian - k-Mean, GMM, E-M - PCA and probabilistic PCA - Bayesian networks, belief propagation - HMM and extensions - Sub-space clustering Regression - Least-square weighted least-square - GMR GPR Discriminative models - SVMs and Kernelization (perceptron, PCA, etc.) - Perceptron, MLP, convolution networks - Decision trees Meta-algorithms - Bagging and boosting - Feature selection, regularization and sparsity Keywords Machine learning, pattern recognition, regression. Learning Prerequisites Required courses At least one prior course in probabilities, linear algebra and programming (C, Java or equivalent). Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Select appropriately in practice standard learning-based inference techniques for regression, classification and density modeling."}
{"courseId": "EE-466", "name": "Energy storage in power systems: technologies, applications and future needs", "description": "The course will bring the major elements on energy storage, principles and physical means Content Fundamentals of energy storage, Ragone representation, energy density, power density. Electrochemical storage components Supercapacitors Hydraulic storage Flywheels Compressed air energy storage Transportation, mobile applications Power elctronics and grid connected systems Learning Prerequisites Required courses Energy conversion Power electronics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Understand the techniques of energy storageDesigne correctly a storage system regarding power demand, energy content, energy efficiency"}
{"courseId": "MSE-484", "name": "Properties of semiconductors and related nanostructures", "description": "This course discusses the origin of the optical and electrical properties of semiconductors. The course explains how the properties change when the semiconductors are reduced to sizes of few nanometers. The applications are briefly presented. Content We will discuss the relation between the size and the fundamental properties of semiconductor materials. We will as well relate the added functionality related to the low dimensionality with the technological applications.1. Introduction2. Basic concepts of bulk semiconductors3. Fabrication and synthesis techniques- Top-down versus bottom-up- Top-down fabrication techniques- Bottom-up synthesis techniques from the vapor phase (MBE,CVD...)4. Electronic transport properties of low dimensional semiconductors5. Optical properties of low dimensional semiconductors6. Applications\u00a0\u00a0 Keywords semiconductor, absorption, luminiscence, mobility, bandgap engineering, Hall effect,diodes, solair cells, transistors Learning Prerequisites Required courses Th\u00e9orie des mat\u00e9riaux (1 and 2) Solid state physics (or equivalent) Recommended courses Quantum physics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Propose models which explain the properties of semiconductorsApply the gained knowledge for proposing solutions to existing or new devices Transversal skills Write a scientific or technical report.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Collect data. Teaching methods Ex cathedra and exercises sessions Expected student activities Participate in class Realize exercices Realize a presentation on a topic related to the lecture Assessment methods Exercises (1/2) and oral presentation (1/2) Resources Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que The Physics of Semiconductors / Grundmann Notes/Handbook Available in moodle"}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-522", "name": "Seismic engineering", "description": "This course deals with the main aspects of seismic design of buildings and bridges. It covers different structural design and evaluation philosophies for new and existing reinforced concrete and masonry structures. Content -\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Introduction Background Seismicity Typical failure modes of structures -\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Conceptual seismic design -\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Analysis methods Response spectra for elastic and inelastic systems Equivalent lateral force method Response spectrum analysis -\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Design and evaluation methods Force-based methods Displacement-based methods -\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Design philosophies Conventional design Capacity design -\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Reinforced concrete structures Inelastic behaviour when subjected to cyclic loading Seismic detailing of reinforced concrete structures -\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Existing reinforced concrete and masonry structures Keywords Seismic design and assessment of reinforced concrete and unreinforced masonry structrues Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Structural dynamics Design of reinforced concrete structures Analysis of isostatic and hyperstatic systems Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the effects of an earthquake on structuresDesign wall-type structures (RC and URM) for earthquakes Teaching methods Lectures, exercises Expected student activities Solution of exercises Assessment methods Exercises, final exam (written) Resources Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que G\u00e9nie parasismique / Lestuzzi Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=12511"}
{"courseId": "AR-402(b)", "name": "Th\u00e9orie et critique du projet MA2 (Gugger)", "description": "laba's focal theme is Urban Nature. Due to the scale and character of today's territorial expansion, the definition of the urban becomes more diffuse and complex. laba's didactic method takes students through design scales ranging from the territorial to the architectural in a year long course. Content The Middle East was the birthplace of the Neolithic Revolution, the founding agricultural act that came to humanize and domesticate the planet. Bridging between Africa and Eurasia and pervaded by large rivers and marshlands, it contained a comparatively moist and fertile land. While climate changes during the Ice Age led to repeated extinction events, this region retained a greater amount of biodiversity than either Europe or North Africa, making it a crucial link in the distribution of Old World flora and fauna, including the spread of humanity. It is considered the Cradle of Civilization because it saw some of the very first developments in human social and technological inventions such as cities, class-based societies, monumental architecture, writing, the wheel, and irrigation. It was home to the eight Neolithic founder crops and four species of domesticated animals (cows, goats, sheep, and pigs). Aslo known as the Fertile Crescent, this region saw the onset of the human domination of nature and the birth of a long history of pastoral aesthetics. laba Studio 2016/17 will focus on Israel and the role played by agriculture in: 1) territorial appropriation and domestication; 2) structuring the development of urbanization; 3) creating a national homeland narrative; and 4) changing the climate. We will look into the three major types of Israeli agricultural development: the vernacular Palestinian/Bedouin, the socialist utopian Kibbutz/ Moshav, and the high-tech desert farming.The studio will be carried out in collaboration with Landbasics, a landscape architecture Master studio at the Technion headed by Prof. Matanya Sack. \u00a0 Keywords Israel, agriculture, arcadia, utopia, colonialism, settlement, water, food Learning Prerequisites Required courses Spring Semester at laba is a mandatory follow up to previous fall semester. laba takes yearly subscriptions only. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Create and follow a project through the various design phases: feasibility study, schematic design, design development and presentation documentation.Conduct field research including the survey and documentation of a site.Present the project through various media: drawings, models, text descriptions, photography, as well as through oral presentations. Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Manage priorities.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Make an oral presentation.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods In the Spring semester laba students must write their own project brief (site program spatial intention) that leads to the development of an architecture project based on the constitution carried out in the first semester. Each student is asked to critically appoint a site and program, and then the project design unfolds in a sequence similar to\u00a0the official phases: feasibility study, schematic design, design development, presentation documentation. Lectures on the subjects of structure, fa\u00e7ade, building services, and fit-out provide inputs to each phase accordingly. This procedure can be seen as a dress rehearsal for the master thesis project.\u00a0Students work individually. Expected student activities The studio is located in Basel. You find more detailed information on our teaching methododology and what we expect from our students by visiting our website < laba.epfl.ch > Assessment methods Each review (both intermediate and final) will be assessed by the laba staff and an appointed guest jury. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "EE-598", "name": "Advanced lab in electrical engineering", "description": "This teaching lab provides the experimental experiences associated to courses of all MSc orientations in EE. The experiments cover all the fields belonging to EE. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Argue hypothesis justifying a physical observationFormulate physical explanationsSynthesize experimental resultsOrganize the work within a team of students Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles. Teaching methods 4 hours to perform the requested work 1 assistant providing help if required Expected student activities Report the work"}
{"courseId": "CS-453", "name": "Concurrent algorithms", "description": "With the advent of multiprocessors, it becomes crucial to master the underlying algorithmics of concurrency. The objective of this course is to study the foundations of concurrent algorithms and in particular the techniques that enable the construction of robust such algorithms. Content Model of a parallel system A Multicore architectProcesses and objectsSafety and liveness\u00a0Parallel programmingAutomatic parallelismMutual exclusion and locksNon-blocking data structures\u00a0Register ImplementationsSafe, regular and atomic registersGeneral and limited transactionsAtomic snapshots\u00a0Hierarchy of objectsThe FLP impssibilityThe consensus numberUniversal constructions Transactional memoriesTransactional algorithmsOpacity and obstruction-freedom Keywords Concurrency, parallelism, algorithms, data structures Learning Prerequisites Required courses ICC, operatings systems Recommended courses Algorithms, concurrency Important concepts to start the course Processes, threads, datas structures Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Reason in a precise manner about concurrencyDesign a concurrent algorithm Teaching methods Lectures and exercises Expected student activities Attendance at lectures completing exercise and sometimes doing a project Assessment methods With continuous control, mid-term final exams and sometimes project Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "ENG-400", "name": "Water quality modeling", "description": "This course builds on environmental chemistry and microbiology taken in previous courses. The emphasis is on quantification using the public domain package, PHREEQC, which is an excellent computation tool. Numerous applications are investigated during the course. Content Overview of principles and modelling for water quality in water bodies and the subsurfaceTopics to be covered will be selected from the following: water phase equilibrium reactions, reaction kinetics, precipitation and dissolution, (mineral) subsurface reactions, cation exchange, bioremediation and contamination degradation, redox reactions, inverse reaction path modelling.\u00a0Modelling for prediction, diagnosis and designThe public domain geochemical modelling package, PHREEQC (http://wwwbrr.cr.usgs.gov/projects/GWC_coupled/phreeqc/) will be used extensively for a variety of modelling scenarios and applications based on the reaction processes described above. Keywords Biogeochemical modelling, PHREEQC, microbial degradation, carbonate chemistry, aqueous speciation, kinetics, thermodynamics, cation exchange, reactive transport, redox Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Microbiology for the engineer Sites remediation Environmental chemistry Important concepts to start the course Basic concepts of chemical modeling (e.g., law of mass action, Monod kinetics) as well as fundamentals of chemical thermodynamics. Some familiarity with nonlinear algebraic equations and first-order ordinary differential equations. Students are expected to bring their own laptop to exercise classes (and install PHREEQC). Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Propose solutions to water quality problemsFormulate mathematical models describing transport processesJustify approximations used in approaches to remediation of groundwaterAssess / Evaluate quantitative results pertaining to changes in water qualityChoose different methods to solve water qualtiy problemsIllustrate analyze and plot data explaining outcomes of modeling of water quality problemsModify existing PHREEQC modelsImplement concepts taught and illustrated in class and tutorials Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Manage priorities.Make an oral presentation.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Ex cathedra teaching, exercises Expected student activities Attend classes Present homework solution to class Complete exercises Assessment methods Homework assignments: 10%, mid-term exam: 20%, final written exam (180 min) in the post-semester exam period: 70%. Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No"}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-451", "name": "Scientific literature analysis in Neuroscience", "description": "The goal is to learn to analyze a paper critically, asking whether the data presented support the conclusions that are drawn. The analysis is presented in the form of a summary abstract and critical, constructive referee's report. Content The goal of the course is to teach you to read a paper critically and understand its content. We will examine published papers and discuss which conclusions can be justified and which require some wishful thinking. We will dissect papers in the field of Neuroscience, discussing recent development, as well as classics.\u00a0Most of the papers will be from fields that are covered in related courses in Neuroscience, so that information from them can be applied to other courses.\u00a0Each week, we will ask you to evaluate a paper, and one or two of the participants will lead the discussion (oral presentation, journal club). Each of you will be expected to produce a summary of the main findings in the proper context, and an assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the paper. You will present the paper from this standpoint. This will require you to study background material so that your presentation places the paper in context. The assessment will be based on your oral presentations, written submissions and participation in the discussions throughout the course. There will be an exam in the final week of the course, in which you will have to provide a written assessment of a paper. Keywords critical reading, neuroscience Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Judge the quality of presented dataPropose additinal experiments base on the dataCritique the content of a paperContextualise the content of a paper in terms of state in the fieldJustify whether the paper should be accepted for publication or modified Teaching methods Lectures to give background information required to read the paper.Group discussion of paper.Written exam at the end of the course Expected student activities Oral presentation of paper, singly or in group.Read background literature to preent the paper in an appropriate context.Prepare a written abstract of the paper, and a critical, constructive evaluation of the paper."}
{"courseId": "COM-402", "name": "Information security and privacy", "description": "This course will provide a broad overview of information security and privacy topics, with the primary goal of giving students the knowledge and tools they will need \"in the field\" in order to deal with the security/privacy challenges they are likely to encounter in today's \"Big Data\" world. Content ' Data protection concepts: access control, encryption, compartmentalization ' Intrusion/hacking techniques, intrusion detection, advanced persistent threats ' Practices for management of personally identifying information ' Operational security practices and failures ' Data anonymization and de-anonymization techniques ' Information flow control ' Differential privacy ' Cryptographic tools for data security and privacy ' Policy, ethics, and legal considerations Keywords security, privacy, protection, intrusion, anonymization, cryptography Learning Prerequisites Required courses Basic programming course or comparable demonstration of basic programming skills Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Understand the most important classes of information security/privacy risks in today's \u00e2\u0080\u009cBig Data\u00e2\u0080\u009d environmentExercise a basic, critical set of \u00e2\u0080\u009cbest practices\u00e2\u0080\u009d for handling sensitive informationExercise competent operational security practices in their home and professional livesUnderstand at overview level the key technical tools available for security/privacy protection"}
{"courseId": "ChE-403", "name": "Chemical engineering of heterogenous reactions", "description": "The theoretical background and practical aspects of heterogeneous reactions including the basic knowledge of heterogeneous catalysis are introduced. The fundamentals are given to allow for the use of chemical reactors to study reaction kinetics and test various mechanistic assumptions. Content 1. Introduction and review Course goals Review of kinetics, transition state theory and the steady state approximation in catalysis Basic types of chemical reactors (Batch, CSTR, Plug flow) 2. Non-ideal flow in reactors Residence time distribution (RTD) Dispersion models for nonideal reactors (axial and radial dispersion) Influence of RTD on reactor performance 3. Heterogeneous catalysis Definitions Kinetics of elementary steps: adsorption, desorption and surface reaction Kinetics of overall reactions Evaluations of kinetic parameters 4. Effects of transport limitations on rates of solid-catalyzed chemical reactions External transport effects Internal transport effects Combined internal and external transport effects 5. Microkinetic analysis of catalytic reactions Basic concepts Case studies including ammonia synthesis and ethylene hydrogenation Keywords Reactor design, non-ideal reactors, heterogeneous catalysis, residence time distribution, transport limited reactions and microkinetic analysis. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Module 'Chemical Engineering' in Bachelor cycle Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate reactor performance using design equationsRepresent the variation in product concentrations with reactor residence timeCompute reaction kinetics, conversions (and yields) for a real tubular reactor from the dispersion modelDevelop the expression of the reaction rate and deduce apparent reaction orders from the experimental data for heterogeneous catalytic reactionHypothesize the adsorption type of a reactant involved in a catalytic reactionPropose a reaction mechanism and derive rate equationDesign reactor and optimal catalyst form, size and morphology for particular industrial application Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsManage priorities.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Assessment methods Two written controls during the semester; each control is based on the assessment via 100 points, totally 200 points; the final grade is calculated as: (total pointsx5 /200 1); the threshold is 111. For example: (111x5/200 1' 4.0) ********** Deux contr\u00f4les \u00e9crites pendant le semestre; chaque contr\u00f4le est bas\u00e9 sur l'\u00e9valuation par 100 points, totalement 200 points; la note finale est calcul\u00e9e comme la suite: (points x 5 /200 1); par exemple : (111x5/200 1' 4.0)"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-514", "name": "Flexible bioelectronics", "description": "The course is an introduction to the emerging field of flexible (bio)electronics. It will provide an overview of the materials and processes used to design and manufacture flexible circuits and sensors. Applications encompass flexible displays, human-machine interfaces and neuroprosthetics. Content Because of the interdisciplinarity nature of the subject, the course content includes concepts from many disciplines in engineering (electrical, material sciences, mechancial, bio- and biomedical engineering). Detailed content: Introduction: what is flexible (bio)electronics? Materials properties Substrates Active device materials (inorganic and organic materials) Coatings and encapsulation Micro/nanofabrication on polymer substrates Vacuum based techniques Printing Thin-film electronic devices Thin-film transistors LEDs, OLEDs Microsensors Performance under mechanical bending (flexibility) Biosensors on foil Biocompatibility, sterilization Smart catheters Microelectrode arrays for neural interfaces - neuroprosthetics In vitro platforms Implantable electrodes Throughout the course, examples of current industrial and academic applications for mechanically compliant electronics will be given. \u00a0 Keywords Polymers, thin-films, devices, cleanroom technology, displays, neuroprosthetics, sensors. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Sensors Microfabrication Electronics I, II Important concepts to start the course Semiconductor devices microfabrication \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the operating principles of thin film transistorsPredict mechanical and electro-mechanical behavior of thin films under mechanical loadingDerive simple process flowEstimate typical failure strain in thin fim devicesAdvise on materials to design and fabricate bioelectronic devices Transversal skills Make an oral presentation.Summarize an article or a technical report.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Lectures Team project Seminar(s) given by external speaker(s) Expected student activities attendance at lecturesassess propopsed litteratureproject presentation and report Assessment methods oral (50%)project (50%) \u00a0 Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "ChE-408", "name": "Eco-friendly production and process intensification", "description": "Chemical and engineering metrics are introduced to assess sustainability & ecology of chemical processes. Innovative design principles are presented allowing the design of intensified chemical production leading to waste reduction, increased reactor safety and high product quality. Content 1. Introduction :The origin of waste, chemistry and chemical engineering metrics 2. Chemicals process routes:Synthesis route selection, catalysis in fine chemicals production 3. The importance of mixing in homogeneous systems: mixing processes & models, segregation in real reactors, influence on product distribution 4. Heat management in continuous reactors: temperature profile in \"flow\" micro-reactors, run away behavior, energy recuperation, coupling of endo-/exothermal reactions 5. Alternative reaction conditions & heat sources: Dynamic reactor operation, chemistry under extreme and unconventional conditions (high temperature and pressure), supercritical fluids, novel solvents, ionic liquids, microwave heating, ultrasound for mixing and reaction activation, multifunctional reactors \u00a0 Keywords Chemical metrics, green chemistry and engineering, process intensification, sustainable production, flow chemistry, novel process windows, structured catalysts, micro-structured reactors, Learning Prerequisites Required courses Chemical engineering bloc of the Bachelor cycle, chemical kinetics, thermodynamics Recommended courses Biochemical-engineering Important concepts to start the course Chemical reaction engineering principles,\u00a0characterization and operation of ideal chemical reactors,\u00a0fundamentals of heat and mass transfer, chemical kinetics,\u00a0describing and simple modeling of homogeneous and heterogeneous catalytic reactions. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze chemical routes and processes in view of its ecological impact, based on quantitative chemical and engineering metricsDescribe the influence of micromixing on reactor performance and product distribution in homogeneous systems.Estimate the mixing time in micro-structured flow reactorsInterpret the mixing quality, based on experimentally determined yields for model reactionsPropose appropriate structured micro-reactors for achieving narrow residence timeAssess / Evaluate the heat transfer performance of micro-structured reactors at laminar flowDesign micro or milli flow reactors for stable process operation, avoiding high parametric sensitivityEstimate hot-spot temperature in plug flow reactors based on thermadynamics, kinetics and reaction conditionsDiscuss the eventual advantages of alternative energy sources in chemical synthesis and processingDimension micro-structured reactors operated in novel process windows (high temperature, pressure, concentration or solvent free..) Teaching methods lectures with integrated examples and exercises Expected student activities attendances at lectures,\u00a0completing and discussion of the integrated exercises Assessment methods during the semester Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "BIO-699(n)", "name": "Training Rotation (EDNE)", "description": "Training rotation"}
{"courseId": "COM-502", "name": "Dynamical system theory for engineers", "description": "Linear and nonlinear dynamical systems are found in all fields of science and engineering. After a quite thorough review of linear system theory, the class will explain and develop the main tools for the qualitative analysis of nonlinear systems, both in discrete-time and continuous-time. Content Introduction: Dynamics of linear and non linear systems. Definitions; Unicity of a solution; Limit Sets, Attractors. Linear Systems: Solutions; Stability of autonomous systems, Geometrical analysis; BIBO stability,\u00a0connection with frequency domain analysis. Nonlinear Systems: Solutions; Examples. Large-scale notions of stability (Lyapunov functions). Small-scale notions of stability (Linearization; stability and basin of attraction of an equilibrium point, stability of a periodic solutions and Floquet Multipliers). Graphical methods for the analysis of low-dimensional systems; Introduction to structural stability, Bifurcation theory. Introduction to chaotic systems. Keywords Dynamical Systems, Attractors, Equilibrium point, Limit Cycles, Stability, Lyapunov Functions, Bifurcations. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Linear algebra (MATH 111 or equivalent). Analysis I, II, III (MATH 101, 106, 203 or equivalent). Recommended courses A BS-level Circuits & Systems class (EE204/205 or equivalent) or a\u00a0Systems & Signals class (MICRO310/311 or equivalent) is strongly recommended. A first-year Probabilty class is useful (such as MATH-232, MATH-231, MATH-234(b), MATH-234(c), or equivalent). Important concepts to start the course Linear Algebra (vector spaces, matrix operations, including inversion and eigendecomposition). Calculus (linear ordinary differential equations; Fourier, Laplace and z-Transforms). Basic notions of topology. Basic notions of probability. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze a linear or nonlinear dynamical system.Anticipate the asymptotic behavior of a dynamical system.Assess / Evaluate the stability of a dynamical system.Identify the type of solutions of a dynamical sytem. Teaching methods Lectures (blackboard), 2h per week Exercise session, 1h per week. Expected student activities Exercises in class/at home: Paper and pencil problems (80%) Matlab (20%) Assessment methods Mid-term 20% Final exam 80% Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes Resources Bibliography Course notes; textbooks given as reference on the moodle page of the course. Notes/Handbook Course notes, exercises and solutions provided on the moodle page of the course. Websites http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=303 Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=303"}
{"courseId": "MSE-432", "name": "Introduction to magnetic materials in modern technologies", "description": "Interactive course addressing bulk and thin-film magnetic materials that provide application-specific functionalities and are relevant for modern technologies ranging from e.g. wind energy harvesting via electric article surveillance to sensing and data storage. Content The course explains the relation between properties of magnetic materials and their composition, structure, as well as the underlying preparation techniques. 1. Introduction to magnetic phenomena 2. Basic concepts of magnetic materials 3. Fabrication and synthesis techniques (bulk materials, thin films, nanoscale materials) 4. Electric, magnetic, mechanical, optical, and thermal properties depending on composition, structure, preparation technique 5. Figure-of-merits of magnetic materials in different technologies and performance tests 6. Applications (e.g. storage, electric article surveillance, nanosensors, biocompatibility) 7. Abundance of relevant elements and sustainability for future devices 8. Magnetic materials for beyond-CMOS research strategies Keywords Spontaneous magnetism, magnetism of elements and alloys, invar, ferro-, ferri- and antiferromagnetic, saturation magnetization, magnetic anisotropies, stray field, demagnetization effect, reversible and irreversible switching processes, hysteresis, domain walls, dc and ac magnetic susceptibility, exchange interaction, dipolar forces, Ising model, Landau-Lifshitz-Gilbert equation, magnetoelastic coupling, exchange bias, spin polarization, spin waves and magnons, Delta-E effect, magnetoresistive random access memory, spin-transfer torque, heat-assisted recording, hard and soft magnets, magnetoelectronics (spintronics), magnetooptics Learning Prerequisites Required courses Fundamentals of solid-state materials, Theory of materials: from structures to properties, Solid state physics (or equivalent), General Physics IV Important concepts to start the course Concepts from General Physics IV and Solid-state materials/physics: angular momenta (orbital, spin), Hunds rule, spin orbit coupling, band structure Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate quantum mechanical aspects of magnetic technologiesOptimize the resource-efficient usage of magnetic materialsApply micromagnetic simulationsCategorize magnetic materials concerning costs and operation conditionsChoose an appropriate fabrication methodJustify strategies for novel magnetic devices Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsCollect data.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Respect the rules of the institution in which you are working. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, exercises, simulations, visit to laboratory, presentations of students Expected student activities Attendance at lectures, completing exercises, feedback via electronic means (e.g. speakup, clickers), performing simulations, report writing, presentation Assessment methods During the term (oral presentations, reports) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Resources Bibliography Available at library, eg. B.D. Cullity, C.D. Graham, Introduction to Magnetic Materials, (2009); J.D. Coey, Magnetism and Magnetic Materials (2010). R.C. O'Handley, Modern magnetic materials: principles and applications (2000) Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Introduction to Magnetic Materials / CullityMagnetism and Magnetic Materials / CoeyModern magnetic materials: principles and applications / O'HandleyFundamentals and Applications of Magnetic Materials / Krishnan Notes/Handbook Please get a polling device (clicker) from the library (see link below) before the start of the lecture. Websites http://clickers.epfl.ch/students Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=15219"}
{"courseId": "FIN-612", "name": "Empirical Methods in Corporate Finance", "description": "This course provides students with a toolbox of empirical methods for use in corporate finance research. These methods include older and more recent econometric techniques. Students will learn the econometric intuition behind each method and how to implement the methods on real data. Content Linear regressions, Panel Data Models, Instrumental variables, Difference-in-differences methods, Regression Discontinuity Design, Matching Methods, Discrete Choice Models, Structural Estimation. Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Econometrics. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Use empirical methods in corporate finance. Assessment methods Paper discussion, data project, final written exam."}
{"courseId": "PHYS-730", "name": "Cosmology: Dark and Luminous Matters ", "description": "Two of the most important problems in modern astrophyiscs and cosmology are (i) galaxy formation and their evolution with time and (ii) the study of the distribution and the nature of dark matter and dark energy in the Universe. Content A) Gravitational Lensing as a Tool for Astrophysics and Cosmology Phenomenology and history Basic equations Multiple images, Fermat's principle, magnification, time delays Quasar lensing Lensing by individual galaxies: dark matter and substructures Microlensing by stars Extragalactic microlensing Microlensing searches for exoplanets Lensing by galaxy clusters Gravitational lensing as a natural telescope Weak gravitational lensing: principles and applications Weak gravitational lensing: detection and analysis methods Weak lensing by large scale structures Gravitational lensing and cosmology : a bright future B) Galaxy Evolution : Stellar Populations and Cosmology The different classes of galaxies and their components Evolution of morphologies Basic equations of chemical evolu-tion The star formation rate The initial mass function First stars The chemical abundances Integrated stellar populations Resolved stellar populations The first galaxies Stellar populations and dynamical models Popula-tion synthesis Chemo-dynamical simulations Large structures of the Universe Note slides and exercises Keywords cosmology; astrophysics; galaxies; gravitational lensing; stellar population; dark matter Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses master in astrophysics or physics"}
{"courseId": "BIO-478", "name": "Pharmacology and pharmacokinetics", "description": "This course introduces the student to the fudamentals in pharmacology, pharmacokin\u00e9tics, drug-receptor interactions. Pharmacogenetics and chronopharmacology are presented in a practical contexte in order to examplify the current issues in the domain to develop personalized medicine Content Introduction to Pharmacology and general topics of pharmacology Pharmacodynamics: Drug-target interaction, quantitative description of ligand binding, relationship between ligand binding and functional effect, antagonism; exercises Classes of drug targets: functional and structural aspects, strategies of drug targeting; examples Pharmacokinetics: principal models and parameters, Drug Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism and Excretion (ADME) Chronopharmacology: effect of circadian rhythm on drug action Pharmacogenetics: candidate genes for variable drug response. Toxicology (e-learning): toxicity mechanisms, risk evaluation, descriptive toxicology Online auto-evaluation questionnaires Article-based and case-based learning (pharmacokinetics modeling) Learning Prerequisites Required courses General human physiology Recommended courses Cellular and molecular physiology Biochemistry Maths Important concepts to start the course Bachelor in Life Sciences and Technology or equivalent, i.e. physiology, cell and molecular biology, maths Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the fundamental concepts in pharmacology and pharmacokineticsDetect the different variables that will interfere with drug administration and actionDesign the ideal drug profile of a drug for a given indication acting in a given part of the body (ADME)Propose a specific organizational scheme of the different stakeholders participating in the development of a drug (from bench to patient bedside)Justify the diferent variables that are important to take into account in order to integrate the concepts in chronopharmacology and pharmacogenetics for the administration of drugs Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking Teaching methods Ex Cathedra and E-learning Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "CS-250", "name": "Algorithms", "description": "The students learn the theory and practice of basic concepts and techniques in algorithms. The course covers mathematical induction, techniques for analyzing algorithms, elementary data structures, major algorithmic paradigms such as dynamic programming, sorting and searching, and graph algorithms. Content Mathematical Induction Mathematical background, Euler's formula for trees, Schwartz-Zippel lemma. Analysis of Algorithms O-notation, time and space complexity, recurrence relations, probabilistic analysis. Data structures Arrays, linked lists, trees, heaps, hashing, graphs. Design of algorithms by induction Evaluating polynomials, divide-and-conquer algorithms, dynamic programming.\u00a0 Greedy Algorithms Spanning tree and shortest path algortihms Sorting and searching Merge sort, bucket sort, quicksort, heapsort, binary search. Graphs algorithms and data structures Graphs traversals, shortest paths, spanning trees, transitive closure, decompostitions, matching, network flows. Complexity Polynomial reductions, NP-completeness. \u00a0 Keywords algorithms, data structures, efficiency, problem solving Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Discrete Structures Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Illustrate the execution of algorithms on example inputsDescribe basic data structures such as arrays, lists, stacks, queues, binary search trees, heaps, and hash tablesAnalyze algorithm efficiencyCompare alternative algorithms and data structures with respect to efficiencyChoose which algorithm or data structure to use in different scenariosUse algorithms and data structures taught in the course on concrete problem instancesDesign new algorithms and data structures based on known methodsProve the correctness of an algorithm Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture, exercises in classroom Assessment methods Continuous assessment with final exam."}
{"courseId": "MATH-432", "name": "Probability theory", "description": "The course provides a rigourous measure theory based introduction to probability. We treat the various forms of convergence for random variables up to convergence in distribution. Content - general probability spaces, random variables and measurable functions, measures and probabilities - expectation for a random variable and reminder of integration theory - independence and the Borel-Cantelli lemmas - strong and weak laws of large numbers - central limit theorem Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses First cycle, Advanced analysis A (measure theory) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Define a probability spaceDefine various modes of convergenceCharacterize convergence in distributionAnalyze tail events via the Borel Cantelli Lemmas Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture and exercises in the classroom \u00a0 Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No Resources Bibliography R. Durrett. Probability: theory and examples. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Probability: Theory and Examples / Durret Websites http://mathaa.epfl.ch/prob/enseignement/proba_theory/index.php"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-718", "name": "Theoretical Microfluidics", "description": "Navier-Stokes equation and basic flow solutions / Hydraulic resistance and compliance Capillary effects / Diffusion and mixing on the microscale Electrohydrodynamics and Electroosmosis, Nanofluidics Dielectrophoresis and Magnetophoresis Content Liquid flows on the microscale often do not behave as we would expect intuitively from our macroscopic point of view. The goal of this course is to provide an insight into specific fluidic phenomena that appear on the scale of typical lab-on-a-chip devices. The course intends to give a more theoretical introduction of fundamental formulas and equations. Nevertheless a range of selected devices/applications will be shown to exemplify specific microfluidic properties. Using the Navier-Stokes equation we will first derive solutions for some basic microfluidic situations, with specific focus on pressure-driven flows. The impact of liquid/channel wall interfaces (capillary forces) on the solution transport in microchannels will be discussed. Analysing the convection-diffusion equation will allow to understand issues related to diffusion and mixing encountered in many lab-on-a-chip applications. In the last part of the course the physical background of liquid transport by electrical fields on the micro- and nanoscale will be explained in detail (electroosmosis). We will also derive the formulas governing the manipulation of cells or particles by electric (dielectrophoresis) and magnetic forces in microfluidic devices. Note Parts of the cours are based on the book \"Theoretical Microfluidics\" by Henrik Bruus Keywords Microfluidics, lab-on-a-chip, Navier-Stokes equation, electroosmosis Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Basic knowledge in physics and lab-on-a-chip technologies/applications Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Transversal skills Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures."}
{"courseId": "MGT-501", "name": "Economics of innovation", "description": "The class gives an overview of innovation economics and management. The class covers the sources and types of innovation, its diffusion, intellectual property and national innovation systems. Finally, it explores the influence of these dimensions on firm strategy and national policy. Content General introduction to the economics of innovation Topics covered include: sources of innovation, innovation and growth, introduction to intellectual property, how competition influence innovation, diffusion of innovations Group work lasts 7 weeks of the class and includes data intensive work collecting, analysing and reporting on an innovation related topic. The students will write a report and prepare an oral presentation \u00a0 Remark: the course will be taught the first 7 weeks of the semester. Keywords Innovation - Economics - Innovation Economics - Diffusion - Competition - Intellectual Property - Strategy - Management Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course A willingness to learn and discover A good knowledge of statistics will be helpful for the group work Programming experience might be useful for the group work Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Use the concepts of innovation economics and managementPlan group workAnalyze data on innovation indicatorsSynthesize information in a reportConduct group work Transversal skills Negotiate effectively within the group.Collect data.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Formal lectures and cases, group work, oral presentations by students Expected student activities Students are expected to attend the lectures, participate in the workshops They will also complete a project in groups and present it Finally, there will be readings assigned from week to week used during the formal lectures for discussion Assessment methods Continuous assessment. Evaluation will be based on the group work, an individual exam, and class participation. Group work: 40% Individual exam: 50% Class participation: 10% Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "CH-414", "name": "Pharmacological chemistry", "description": "The molecular and chemical basis of diseases and therapies are discussed. Content Lecures 1-5: The following five major disease areas as well as small molecule therapeutics applied to treat the diseases are discussed: cancer cadiovascular diseases neurologic disorders infectious diseases inherited diseases Lectures 6-13: The following therapeutic formats being mostly biologics are discussed: blood and blood components enzymes hormones cytokines monoclonal antibodies antibody fragments and mimics macrocycles peptides and peptidomimetics \u00a0 Keywords pharmacological chemistry, drug discovery, therapeutics, biologics Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Basic knowledge in chemistry and biochemistry Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe The molecular basis of diseasesDescribe Therapeutics and their mechanism of actionRecall Drug development strategies that are discussed as case studies Teaching methods Each week, one of the above described topics is presented in a lecture (45 minutes) and a research paper is discussed (45 minutes). Expected student activities The students read each week a research paper and answer questions that are provided (at home). The students participate in the discussion of the paper in the lecture. Assessment methods Oral exam"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-708", "name": "High energy and space astrophysics (UNIGe)", "description": "Acquisition of basic knowledge on emission processes relevant to high energy emission of cosmic objects. Acquisition of a broad knowledge of all types of high energy objects. General knowledge of a number physical processes relevant in high energy astrophysics."}
{"courseId": "EE-612", "name": "Fundamentals in statistical pattern recognition", "description": "This course provides in-depth understanding of the most fundamental algorithms in statistical pattern recognition as well as concrete tools (as source code) to PhD students for their work. It will cover regression, classification (MLP, SVM) and probability distribution modeling (k-Means, GMM, HMM). Content Learning outcomes: this course provides in-depth understanding in Statistical Pattern Recognition as well as concrete tools to PhD students for their work. This course could serve as a pre-requisite for more advanced courses such as Machine Learning, Graphical Models, Statistical Sequence Processing and Computational perception using multimodal sensors. \u00a0 1. Introduction - Data representation - Supervised/unsupervised models (from regression and classification to probability distribution modelling) - Overview: Linear models, Principal Component Analysis (PCA), Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA), Multi-Layered Perceptron (MLP), Support Vector Machines (SVM), k-Means, Gaussian Mixture Models (GMM)\u00a0 Hidden Markov Models (HMM), Session Variability Modelling (Joint Factor Analysis) and Total Variability Modelling (iVectors), Probabilistic Linear Discriminant Analysis (PLDA) - Connection to other EPFL courses - Evaluation methodologies and performance measures (precision, recall, FA, FR, EER, HTER, MSE, ROC, AUC, DCF, DET, EPC) - Hypothesis testing and statistical significance 2. Classification and regression - Application examples (digit recognition, face detection) - k-Nearest Neighbors (k-NN) - Linear Regression (univariate and multivariate) and the Gradient descent - Logistic Linear Regression - Multi-Layered Perceptron (MLP) and the BackPropagation - Support Vector Machines (SVM) 3. Dimensionality reduction and clustering - Application examples (data analysis and texture recognition) - k-Means - Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA) 4. Probability distribution modelling - Application examples (speech recognition and biometrics) - Histograms - Gaussian Mixture Models (GMM) and the Expectation-Maximisation (EM) algorithm - Hidden Markov Models (HMM) Keywords Pattern Recognition, Machine Learning, Linear models, PCA, LDA, MLP, SVM, GMM, HMM. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Linear algebra, Probabilities and Statistics, Signal Processing, Python (for the Labs). Assessment methods Project report and oral presentation."}
{"courseId": "COM-702", "name": "Advanced Topics in Cryptology", "description": "recent results on discrete logarithm algorithms over high degree extension fields Content In this course the latest research in cryptology will be studied in an interactive fashion. Students will read, present, and discuss results from the most recent major cryptology conferences (such as Crypto and Eurocrypt) and explore ways to improve those results. A particular focus will be the study and development of new results related to discrete logarithm algorithms over highdegree extension fields. The course is intended to stimulate students in their own research. Keywords Cryptology; Algorithms; number theory, discretel ogarithms, extension fields Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses General mathematics and elementary number theory background Teaching methods after a few introductory classes during whcih papers will be assigned to students, the papers will be presented by the students and be discussed in detail. Expected student activities read papers, present them, participate in discussions Assessment methods assessment will be based on quality of presentations(s) and participation in class"}
{"courseId": "COM-501", "name": "Advanced cryptography", "description": "This course reviews some failure cases in public-key cryptography. It introduces some cryptanalysis techniques. It also presents fundamentals in cryptography such as interactive proofs. Finally, it presents some techniques to validate the security of cryptographic primitives. Content Public-key cryptography: Factoring, RSA problem, discrete logarithm problem, attacks based on subgroups Conventional cryptography: differential and linear cryptanalysis, hypothesis testing, decorrelation Interactive proofs: NP-completeness, interactive systems, zero-knowledge Proofs techniques: Security of encryption, random oracles, game reduction techniques Keywords cryptography, cryptanalysis, interactive proof, security proof Learning Prerequisites Required courses Cryptography and security (COM-401) Important concepts to start the course Cryptography Mathematical reasoning Number theory and probability theory Algorithmics Complexity Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate the security deployed by cryptographic schemesProve or disprove securityJustify the elements of cryptographic schemesAnalyze cryptographic schemesImplement attack methodsModel security notions Teaching methods ex-cathedra Expected student activities active participation during the course take notes during the course do the exercises during the exercise sessions complete the regular tests and homework read the material from the course self-train using the provided material do the midterm exam and final exam Assessment methods Mandatory continuous evaluation: homework (30%) regular graded tests (30%) midterm exam (40%) Final exam averaged (same weight) with the contiuous evaluation, but with final grade between final_exam-1 and final_exam 1. Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Others Lecturers and assistants are available upon appointment."}
{"courseId": "MATH-449", "name": "Biostatistics", "description": "Biostatistics is about the application of statistics to medicine and life sciences. The course covers various methods and problems that are typical for these areas of application. Despite the applied context, the course treats the topic at a fairly abstract level. Content The analysis of counting data: estimate probabilities, transform probabilities, comparison of two frequencies, chi-squared statistics, binary regression, log-linear models, the test of Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel Meta-analysis: power of tests, combining evidence, inverse variance weights and meta-analysis, meta-analysis by variance stabilization, random effects v. fixed effects, publication bias Crossover studies Linear, mixed and generalized linear Models: longitudinal studies Survival analysis: regression models (accelerated lifetimes and proportional hazards), random effects Keywords see content Learning Prerequisites Required courses An introduction to statistics and probability Recommended courses Linear Models Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose an appropriate method for a given problemApply the methods learned in the courseDefend a data analysis he/she performedCritique published studies Transversal skills Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingAccess and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods Classroom lectures supported by the blackboard, occasional examples shown on the beamer, exercices in class and independent work. Expected student activities Participation in exercice sessions. Assessment methods Oral examination"}
{"courseId": "CS-446", "name": "Digital 3D Geometry Processing", "description": "Students study & apply core concepts and algorithms for digital geometry processing & 3D content creation. They create their own digital and physical geometry in a group project that follows the digital 3D content creation pipeline from data acquisition, geometry processing, to physical fabrication. Content The course will follow the digital 3D content creation pipeline. We will first\u00a0discuss the fundamentals of geometry representations and cover continuous and discrete differential geometry concepts.\u00a0Polygon mesh representations will be at the center of our investigations. We derive the core processing methods for triangle meshes, such as surface smoothing, parameterization, remeshing or deformation. Besides the mathematical concepts and algorithmic foundations, the course puts strong emphasis on implementation and features an extensive project. For the project, students will scan their own 3D models, edit and enhance them with geometry processing algorithms, and finally map their geometric models to digital fabrication processes (3D printing, laser cutting) to create physical realizations of their models. Keywords geometry, 3D modeling, polygon meshes, digital fabrication Learning Prerequisites Required courses Linear Algebra, Calculus, Programming Recommended courses Introduction to Computer Graphics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain and contrast fundamental geometry representationsExplain and apply basic concepts from discrete differential geometryAnalyze the 3D content creation pipeline and understand its limitationsImplement and evaluate basic geometry processing algorithms, such as smoothing, remeshing, deformation, and constructive solid geometryCreate digital 3D models from photographs and process the acquired raw geometry to build physical prototypesCoordinate a team during a software project Teaching methods Lectures, interactive demos, theory and programming exercises, programming project, project tutoring Expected student activities The student are expected to study the provided reading material and actively participate in class.\u00a0They should\u00a0prepare and resolve the exercises, prepare and carry out the programming project.\u00a0Exercises in the first half of the course are done in groups of three students. For the second half of the course, the project is done in larger teams. Assessment methods Exercises (20%), project\u00a0(40%), final examination (40%) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-604", "name": "Introduction to digital signal processing using Matlab, applied to environmental sciences and civil engineering", "description": "Provide civil engineers signal processing tools and bases in order to process and interpret monitoring datasets and give a practical introduction to matlab. Content The course will be held in two parts, the first part deals with basics of signal processing. The fourier transform, sampling, spectral analysis and signal filtering are presented. Also coding and plotting with matlab is introduced using practical examples. In a second time during practical work a dataset has to be processed using matlab. The students can use their own dataset ( accelerometers, displacement, impact-echo, etc '), if they have none a ground penetrating radar dataset will be provided."}
{"courseId": "ChE-402", "name": "Advanced diffusional separation processes", "description": "Design of selected separation processes (gas absorption and stripping, distillation, membrane separations) using the mass-transfer approach. Content 1. Laminar mass transfer Molecular diffusion. Effect of the degree of counterdiffusion. Diffusion in multicomponent mixtures. Diffusion generated by different driving forces Unsteady-state diffusion. 2. Turbulent mass transfer Correlations, analogies and predictive models for estimating mass transfer coefficients. Two-film theory.3. Gas absorption and stripping The HTU and HETP concepts. Isothermal and non-isothermal absorption. Effect of axial dispersion. Flooding limit. Real plates. Generalized and simplified design procedures. 4. Membrane processes Reverse osmosis. Ultrafiltration. Gas diffusion. Pervaporation. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Equilibrium-stage separation processes Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Estimate the mass transfer coefficientDesign a separation process by taking mass transfer kinetics into accountPredict the effect of operational conditions on the performance of a separation processModel a separation process by taking mass transfer kinetics into accountCompute the height of a transfer unitCompute the number of transfer unitsCompute the flooding limit, the pressure drop and the column diameterPredict the effect of axial dispersion on the performance of a separation processPredict the effect of temperature on the performance of a separation processIntegrate the design bases of membrane processesDesign experiments to measure the height of a transfer unit Teaching methods lectures (2 hour per week) exercises (1 hour per week) Assessment methods written exam"}
{"courseId": "BIO-505", "name": "Lab immersion academic (outside EPFL) B", "description": "The student will engage in a laboratory-based project in the field of molecular medicine, neuroscience, or bioengineering. Student projects will emphasize acquisition of practical skills in experimentation and data analysis. Content A typical project will involve \"hands-on\" wet-lab experimentation and data analysis, although theoretical and computationally-oriented projects are also possible. The students must carry out an original research project in the field of molecular medicine, neuroscience, or bioengineering. This project will allow the student to apply the domain and transversal skills acquired during her/his previous studies to concrete research problems. Remark The student must download and complete the form 'Lab immersion in academia' (http://sv.epfl.ch/masters_en; see Directives) and submit it to the SV Section (SSV). The form must be approved and signed by an EPFL supervising professor and the SSV section director. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bachelor in Life Sciences and Technology Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manage an individual research projectDevelop an individual research projectImplement appropriate technologies to address the scientific or engineering problem being studiedConduct experiments appropriate to the specific problem being studiedAssess / Evaluate data obtained in wet-lab and computational experimentsInterpret data obtained in wet-lab and computational experimentsOptimize experimental protocols and data presentationPlan experiments to test hypotheses based on obtained results Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingDemonstrate a capacity for creativity.Write a scientific or technical report. Expected student activities Students will focus on hands-on experimentation, which may be wet-lab-based or computer-based, depending on the project. Students will read and discuss assigned papers from the original scientific literature. Expected workload: one semester full time Assessment methods Continuous control Students must produce two written reports (http://sv.epfl.ch/masters_en; see Directives /Cover sheet - master lab immersion academic) during the lab immersion outside EPFL to obtain 22 credits. The two reports should each be maximally 10-15 A4 pages in length, including illustrations, figures, and bibliography. These reports must be signed by the student and countersigned by the head of the host laboratory. The student is responsible for sending her/his written reports (in PDF format with a scan of the signature page) directly to the supervising EPFL professor, who will evaluate them on a pass-fail basis. The supervising professor must transmit the outcomes of these evaluations to the SSV (master-stv@epfl.ch) within one week of the indicated dates below. If validated by the supervising professor and the head of the host laboratory, the two reports are the basis for granting 22 credits 'equivalence'. Additionally, the head of the host laboratory must complete a confidential evaluation form (http://sv.epfl.ch/masters_en; see Directives) and send it directly to the SSV (master-stv@epfl.ch) within two weeks after the student submits the second written report. Dates for submission of the written reports: 1st report: mid-term (week 7) 2nd report: end of semester (week 14) The second report describes the progress made towards the goals outlined in the first report, including: (1) a brief recapitulation of the scientific problem; (2) results obtained and what conclusions can be drawn; (3) whether the original research plan is being followed and what adaptations have been made, with justification; (4) timeline of research for the rest of the semester; (5) a brief paragraph of self-evaluation on the student's integration into the laboratory and progress in mastering the relevant techniques and technologies. The deadline for submission of the written reports must be respected. Failure to submit a report, or late submission, may result in a 'non-acquis' (NA), i.e., non-award of the credits corresponding to the period covered by the report. Supervision Others Typically, the student will be matched with a secondary mentor in the host laboratory (this will usually be a senior PhD student or a postdoctoral fellow), who will take responsibility for the day-to- day supervision and training of the student."}
{"courseId": "CH-423", "name": "Inorganic reactivity", "description": "The course will teach students to classify and understand chemical reactions in solution including metal ions . The students will learn to chose amongst experimental techniques presented. Content Introduction Basics Experimental methods Reaction mechanisms in inorganic chemistry Assignment of reaction mechanisms Solvent exchange reactions Complex formation reactions Systematic survey of substitution mechanisms Inner-and outersphere redox reaction mechanisms Mechanisms in bioinorganic chemistry Keywords reaction mechanisms in inorganic chemistry complex formation reactions solvent exchange reaction redox reaction mechanisms experimental methods to study chemical reactions \u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses coordination chemistry electrochimie des solutions analyse structurale thermodynamique chimique I et II Recommended courses chemical kinetics Important concepts to start the course chemical thermodynamics coordination chemistry analytical methods in inorganic chemistry basics of NMR Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Categorize chemical reactions including metal ions in solutionChoose an appropriate experimental methodArgue on different reaction mechanisms in complex formation reactions Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods - ex cathedra course based on power point slides - discussion of recent exemplary scientific papers related to inorganic reactivity Expected student activities active participation at the course study of the proposed scientific papers discussion of the proposed scientific papers Assessment methods oral exam \u00a0 Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No Others contact on demand \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "ENV-542", "name": "Advanced satellite positioning", "description": "All fundamental principals behind modern satellite positioning to acquire, track and evaluate direct and indirect satellite signals and process them for positioning and environment-monitoring applications. Content Concept of satellite positioning- basic principals & reference frames- orbit computation & simple positioning\u00a0Signal modulation and structure- RF propagation in space - signal structure\u00a0Receiver technology- signal preprocessing- signal acquisition & tracking\u00a0Error models and differencing concepts- code and carrier phase measurements - linear combination of observations\u00a0Algorithms for positioning- code and carrier-phase smoothed-code- carrier-phase cycle ambiguity determination\u00a0Algorithms for environmental sensing- water vapor estimation- total electron content estimation - GNSS reflectometry Keywords GNSS, GPS, GLONASS, Galileo, Beidou, satellite, positioning, signal modulation, detection, estimation, signal processing Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Fundamentals of satellite positioning, signals and systems, or signal processing Important concepts to start the course Linear algebra, basic signal processing, statistics, programmation in Matlab Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Implement signal acqusition and trackingDevelop estimation procedure for precise relative positioningInterpret error sources as signal of environmentApply orbit calculation and two algorithms for absolute point -positioningSynthesize a particular problem in GNSS for other studentsSolve carrier-phase ambiguities in geometry-free scenario Transversal skills Make an oral presentation.Summarize an article or a technical report.Collect data. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, exercises (part in computer room), demonstrations Expected student activities Active participation in the course and lab assignments, programmation of algoritms and self-control (debugging), study of scientific papers. Assessment methods Continous control, 3 tests Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Bibliography Recommended literature on Moodle. Notes/Handbook Slides, book chapter and scientific papers distributed via Moodle. Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=13837"}
{"courseId": "EE-490(c)", "name": "Lab in electrical energy systems", "description": "This teaching lab provides the experimental experiences associated to courses of the Energy orientation of the MSc in Electrical Engineering. The experiments cover : real-time simulation, power electronics and control, electrical machine and drives, and dynamic coordination. Content 1. Real-time simulation of electrical circuits (4) Circuit simulation principles Deployment of the nodal analysis into a simulation environment Deployment of the nodal analysis into a real-time simulation environment 2. Power electronics and control (3) Hardware-In-the-Loop simulation of a Renewable Energy System ' Considerations on Control DC-DC Buck Converter - Multichannel Interleaved Converter Analysis of Harmonic Pollution in AC Drive 3. Electrical Machines and drives (6) Induction Machine : Basic and advanced behavior Synchronous generator : Basic and advanced behavior 4. Dynamic coordination (1) Control of system with delay with a Smith predictor \u00a0 Keywords Real-time simulation Electrical machines and drives Power electronics and control Smith Predictor and optimal control \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Courses of the EE-MSc \u00ab\u00a0Energy\u00a0\u00bb orientation \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: AnalyzeCharacterizePerformExploitManipulateVerify Teaching methods Practical works in groups \u00a0 Expected student activities Attend every teaching lab and participate actively. \u00a0 Assessment methods Obligatory continuous \u00a0 Supervision Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-567", "name": "Optical waves propagation", "description": "Give a tool for the treatment of electromagnetic wave propagation in linear and nonlinear media. Content 1. From Maxwell's equation to beam propagation methods (BPM) 2. \u00a0Near field. Propagation of plane waves, Gaussian beams, periodic structures and non-diffracting beams. 3. Relationship to classical diffraction integrals (Fresnel, Fraunhofer, Sommerfeld (paraxial / non paraxial BPM)) 4. Thin transparencies, lenses, imaging 5. Imaging systems, Point Spread Function (PSF) 6. Optical resolution, confocal and superresolution microscopy techniques. Rotating beams, vortices, helical beams 7. Waveguides 8. Optical fibers 9. Phase conjugation, holography 10. Volume holograms / grating 11. Nonlinear Optics and nonlinear BPM \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Fundamentals of optic and electromagnetism Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze optical systemsDesign imaging systems Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, exercises and simulations using MATLAB Assessment methods Exercises, simulations using MATLAB and written exam Supervision Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-617", "name": "Energy Autonomous Wireless Smart Systems", "description": "The course provides in depth knowledge on how to design an energy autonomous microsystem embedding sensors with wireless transmission of information. It covers the energy generation, power management, and data processing and transmission with an emphasis on low-power and energy efficient operation. Content Introduction to Energy Autonomous Wireless Systems (D. Briand / 2h)- Description of course organization and content- Introduction to EAWS, building blocks, state of the art, applications, case studies \u00a0 Energy sources and storage (D. Briand / 6h)Working principles, technologies and comparison (efficiency, power density, potential applications) of energy sources and storage:- Batteries, supercapacitors, micro-fuel cells- Energy harvesters: solar, radiation, mechanical, thermal, chemical \u00a0 RF, inductive and acoustic powering and backscattering wireless communication (C. Dehollain / 6h)- Near field, far field and ultrasonic remote powering - AC to DC converter (rectifier) and voltage regulator dedicated to magnetic, electro-magnetic and electro-acoustic coupling- Charge storage on a large load capacitor, on a super-capacitor and on a rechargeable battery- Remote powering RFID smart systems and sensor nodes- Backscattering data communication for telecoms and biomedical application- Load modulation for telecoms and biomedical applications \u00a0 Ultra-low power and efficient electronics (K. Salimi / 6h)- Converters for power sources and energy storage- Electronics strategies for energy harvesters- Electronics for sensors and low-power sensor usages- Sensor selection criteria for low-power consumption- Low-energy sensor data processing, storage and transmission strategies \u00a0 Wireless communications (C. Botteron / 8h)- Introduction: applications, characteristics, protocols and models;- The wireless channel: propagation principles, link budget;- Access and controls: coding, modulations, medium access controls, performance metrics;- Existing wireless solutions: proprietary, standardized;- Practical constraints with energy harvesting \u00a0 Digital low power VLSI design (A. Burg / 3h)- Power consumption in VLSI systems- Low-power IC design techniques and physical limitations (reliability)- Technology selection \u00a0 System level design: Case studies (A. Burg / 3h)- System-level design tradeoffs for low power: processing/storage/communications- Component selection and integration- Power management- Case studies Note We will also propose this course to the EDEE program Keywords Autonomous, Electronics, Energy, Harvesting, Ultra Low-Power, Sensors, Communication Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basics in electronics and in microelectronics"}
{"courseId": "CS-328", "name": "Numerical methods for visual computing", "description": "Visual computing disciplines are characterized by their reliance on numerical algorithms to process large amounts of visual information such as geometry, images, and volume data. This course will familiarize students with a range of essential numerical tools to solve practical problems in this area Content This course provides a first introduction to the field of numerical analysis with a strong focus on visual computing applications. Using examples from computer graphics, geometry processing, computer vision, and computational photography, students will gain hands-on experience with a range of essential numerical algorithms.\u00a0 The course will begin with a review of important considerations regarding floating point arithmetic and error propagation in numerical computations. Following this, students will study and experiment with several techniques that solve systems of linear and non-linear equations. Since many interesting problems cannot be solved exactly, numerical optimization techniques constitute the second major topic of this course. Students will learn how principal component analysis can be leveraged to compress or reduce the dimension of large datasets to make them easier to store and analyze. The course concludes with a review of numerical methods that make judicious use of randomness to solve problems that would otherwise be intractable.\u00a0 Students will have the opportunity to gain practical experience with the discussed methods using programming assignments based on Scientific Python. Keywords Visual computing, numerical linear algebra, numerical analysis, optimization, scientific computing Learning Prerequisites Required courses MATH-101 (Analysis I) and MATH-111 (Linear Algebra). \u00a0 Recommended courses The courses CS-211 (Introduction to visual computing) and MATH-106 (Analysis II) are recommended but not required. \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course Students are expected to have good familiarity with at least one programming language (e.g. C/C , Java, Scala, Python, R, Ruby...). The course itself will rely on Python, but this is straightforward to learn while taking the course. During the first weeks of the semester, there will be tutorial sessions on using Python and Scientific Python. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Develop computer programs that use numerical linear algebra and analysis techniques to transform and\u00a0visualize data.Reason about ways of structuring numerical computations efficiently.Analyze the numerical stability of programs built on top of floating point arithmetic.Recognize numerical problems in visual computing applications and cast them into a form that can be solved or optimized. Teaching methods Lectures, interactive demos, theory and programming exercises\u00a0 Expected student activities Students are expected to study the provided reading material and actively participate in class and in exercise sessions. They will be given both theoretical exercises and a set of hands-on programming assignments.\u00a0 Assessment methods 1. Continuous assessment during the semester via project assignments (50%) 2. Final exam (50%) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes Resources Bibliography Slides and other resource will be provided in class. The course textbook is\u00a0 Numerical Algorithms: Methods for Computer Vision, Machine Learning, and Graphics\u00a0by Justin Solomon (freely available at the following link:\u00a0http://people.csail.mit.edu/jsolomon/share/book/numerical_book.pdf) An optional reference is Scientific Computing: An Introductory Survey\u00a0(2nd edition) by Michael Heath Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Numerical Algorithms: Methods for Computer Vision, Machine Learning, and Graphics / SolomonScientific Computing: An Introductory Survey / Heath Websites https://rgl.epfl.ch/courses/NMVC16"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-709", "name": "Power management", "description": "The objective of this course is to discuss the state-of-the-art in low-power analog and digital system design, with special emphasis on transistor level measures to limit and to control the power dissipation of portable systems. Content 1.\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 DC-DC Converters, Topologies & Control Techniques2. \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0Converter Modeling and Feedback Loop Design3. \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0Microprocessor Power Supplies4. \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0Switched-Capacitor Power Supplies5. \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0CMOS Linear Regulators, Design and Case Studies6. \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0Bandgap References7. \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0Alternative Bandgaps and Applications8. \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0Battery Charging Techniques & Circuits for Notebook Computers & Cellular Phones9. \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0Transistor-Level Off-line DC-DC Controller Design10. \u00a0\u00a0Circuit Techniques for Integrated Switching11. \u00a0\u00a0Regulators Note * Organized by MEAD/EPFL More informations & registration at:http://mead.ch/MEADNEW/power-management/ Contact: education@mead.ch \u00a0 Keywords DC-DC Converters, Power Supplies, Bandgap References"}
{"courseId": "MGT-433", "name": "Environmental policy", "description": "The course will allow students to become familiar with interactions between environmental and socio-economic systems. Group work on real case studies will teach students to analyze problems in a structured way and to manage relevant opportunities and challenges. Content Introduction \u00e0 des syst\u00e8mes environnementaux majeurs Analyse des Interaction avec les actvit\u00e9s humaines relevantes Connaissance des politiques publiques et internationales Connaissance des instruments volontaires Evaluation et gestion du risque et des opportunit\u00e9s dans des cas concrets Comprehension de la transition vers une societ\u00e9 respectueuse des limites de la plan\u00e8te Keywords Environment, Public Policies, Case Study, Problem Solving Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Working in groups on real case studies will be an important part of the course. The groups are formed in the first week of the semester. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze the interaction between environmental and socio-economis systemsAssess / Evaluate resulting problems and opportunitiesDevelop appropiate strategies and solutionsDecide wich solution should be implementedProduce a final report on a case studyPresent the report to the plenary Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods Case studies Group discussions Lectures Guest speakers Expected student activities Read the indicated literature and discuss it during the course. Attend the lecture Work on real case studies in groups: analyze the situation, identify possible solutions and present them. Write a final report on the case study Assessment methods 20% Participation 40% Case Study Final Report 40% Written Exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "ENV-507", "name": "Fate and behaviour of organic pollutants", "description": "The student will learn the important processes that control the transport and transformation of organic chemicals in the environment, as well as the formulation and solution of quantitative models to describe these processes. Content - Phase transfer processes including vapor-liquid partitioning, liquid-liquid partitioning, and sorption processes- Mass transfers through boundary layers, kinetics of air-water exchange- Structure-Activity relationships- Substitution and elimination reactions - Hydrolysis reactions, incl. catalysis by metal ions and metal oxides- Direct and indirect photolysis reactions\u00a0 Keywords organic pollutants aquatic system mass transfer organic reactions thermodynamics kinetics Learning Prerequisites Required courses General chemistry Recommended courses Environmental chemistry Important concepts to start the course Interest in learning chemistry Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Anticipate models which describe the important processes that control the transport and transformation of organic chemicals in the environment.Formulate these models in a correct way.Solve the models. Transversal skills Collect data.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Negotiate effectively within the group.Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, exercises, term projects Expected student activities Attend lectures and exercise sessions. Complete weekly assigned exercises. Prepare independently for the midterm and final exams. Prepare and present an independent project. Assessment methods 25 % test during the semester (60 min) 30 % continuous control (term project) 45 % final written test (120 min) during the exam session Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Environmental Organic Chemistry / Schwarzenbach Websites Moodle.epfl.ch"}
{"courseId": "BIO-657", "name": "Landmark Papers in Cancer and Infection", "description": "The topics will cover all the fields in which the GHI and ISREC PIs work. Content It will allow the students to be exposed to (non exhaustive): various pathogenic organisms (bacteria, viruses and helminths) different experimental infection models (cells, mice, daphnae, flies) various models to study animal development various systems to study cancer Each session will include a 30 min introduction by the professors, followed by the presentation and dissection of a paper in the field. All students will prepare the paper beforehand and a student will be selected for the presentation.\u00a0 \u00a0 Note The course will take place from beginning February to end May/beginning June 2016. Keywords Infection, cancer, development, cell division, epigenetics, genomics, drug development. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basic cell and molecular biology."}
{"courseId": "EE-520", "name": "Advanced analog and RF integrated circuits design I", "description": "This course covers the design of advanced analog integrated circuits, focusing on the design of switched-capacitor and continuous-time integrated filters. The objective is to be able to design integrated filters starting from the system specifications and choosing the appropriate technique. Content 1) Background : Review of fundamental passive and active integrated components and their models.\u00a02) Noise Analysis and Modeling : noise characterization; thermal noise; flicker noise; other types of noise; noise models of circuit elements; noise analysis in circuits; examples: single-stage OTA.\u00a03) Fundamentals of Filter Design : types of filters; frequency and impedance normalization; filter specifications; approximation; passive synthesis; second-order sections - the biquads; high-order filter design; non-ideal effects.\u00a04) Integrated Active Filters Implementations : continuous-time filters: RC-active, Gm-C filters, MOSFET-C filters; switched-capacitor filters: basic building blocks, basic operation and analysis, first-order filter, biquad filters; high-order filters: component simulation of LC ladders, operational simulation of LC ladders; non-ideal effects. Keywords Analog circuits, integrated circuits, CMOS, filters Learning Prerequisites Required courses EE-331 Circuits et syst\u00e8mes \u00e9lectroniques I,II Recommended courses EE-320 Circuits int\u00e9gr\u00e9s I Important concepts to start the course Linear circuits analysis, Fourier and Laplace transforms, small-signal schematic, analysis of basic circuits. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze simple analog circuits.Design analog filters.Select appropriately an appropriate filter architecture. Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Ex cathedra and exercices Expected student activities Solve several exercises. Assessment methods Written Resources Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=180"}
{"courseId": "ME-524", "name": "Advanced control systems", "description": "This course covers some theoretical and practical aspects of robust and adaptive control. Robust controller design with H-infinity performance, digital controller design with pole placement technique, direct, indirect and switching adaptive control are studied and implemented in a hands-on lab. Content Stability, performance and robustness of closed-loop control systems. Robust controller design by loop shaping. Robust H-infinity controller design in the frequency domain. Multivariable decoupling controller design. Gain-scheduled controller design. Two-degree of freedom RST digital polynomial controller. Pole placement technique and its relation to Internal Model Control (IMC), Model Reference Control (MRC) and Minimum Variance Control (MVC). Robust pole placement with Q parameterization. Parameter adaptation algorithms. Direct and Indirect adaptive control. Switching adaptive control. Keywords Adaptive control, robust control, digital RST controller. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Control systems Lab Recommended courses Control Systems System Identification Multivariable systems Important concepts to start the course Analyze a linear dynamical system (both time and frequency responses) Represent a linear system by a transfer function Identify a dynamic system using experimental data Design a PID controller Design a simple controller for a dynamic system Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design an advanced controller for a dynamic system, A13Assess the stability, performance and robustness of a closed - loop system, A14Define (specifications) the adequate control performance for dynamic systems , A15Propose several control solutions, formulate the trade - offs, choose the options, A16Validate the performance (by simulations or experiments), A24Evaluate and discuss the perform ance and the solutions, and draw conclusions, A26 Transversal skills Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Ex cathedra course, integrated demos and case studies, Hands-on laboratory. Expected student activities Hands-on laboratory in groups of two students. Assessment methods Oral exam (theoretical and practical questions on hands-on lab reports) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MSE-803", "name": "2D Layered Materials: Synthesis, Properties and Applications", "description": "The school will cover the material synthesis, characterization and the applications in nano-electromechanical systems (NEMS), high frequency electronics and quantum devices of 2-dimensional layered materials. Students will develope a model of a 2D nano-electromechanical system using COMSOL. Content The emergence of two-dimensional materials started by the experimental isolation of graphene, a single layer of graphite, by mechanical exfoliation in 2004. Since then, the research field of 2-dimensional layered materials not only has been launched but is also developing in an exponential manner, which could be seen in the number of related publications. Graphene and other 2-dimensional materials, such as transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs), hexagonal boron nitride, phosphorene, etc. have been gaining tremendous attention in the field of material science, nano-electronics, photonics, and energy technology. 2D materials have a layered structure, consisting of few-atom-thick sheets stacked together and held by weak van der Waals forces which allows their isolation into single layers. The family of 2D layered materials offer a comprehensive library containing the metallic, insulating, semiconducting and superconducting properties which makes it possible to realize various electronic and optoelectronic device using building blocks all based on 2D materials and give rise to many new device concepts and theories. Graphene is a semimetal with excellent electronic and thermal conductivity. With its high transparency due to monolayer thickness, graphene would be one of the best candidates for transparent electrodes. Its peculiar band structure provides a platform to study various physical phenomenon, such as massless Dirac Fermion and anomalous room-temperature Hall effect, to be studied. Furthermore, despite being ultrathin, graphene offers excellent mechanical properties.\u00a0 Being the strongest material ever discovered, graphene has the breaking strength about 200 times higher than stainless steel and could sustain high elastic strain of up to 20%. The high stiffness and the high flexibility makes graphene a promising candidate for application in flexible electronics and nanoelectromechanical devices. \u00a0 \u00a0Semiconducting 2D materials such as TMDs are another groups of this family of materials that offer even more promising properties. Unlike graphene which is a semimetal and therefore unsuitable for digital electronics, these atomically thin layers poses a sizable bandgap which makes them highly suitable for building active electronic devices such as the basic unit\u00a0 of logic circuits and processors. The family of transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) fulfil the need for 2D layered semiconductors with a vast spectrum of properties. Nowadays, the essential role of these materials is more and more highlighted as the integrated circuit industry based on Si-MOSFET is approaching the limits of down-scaling, which has been used over decades to improve the processing power per unit area. 2D semiconducting TMDs are considered as a potential solution due to their ultrathin thickness, which allows efficient modulation of the carrier transport. Moreover, the direct bandgap of monolayer TMDs guarantee promising applications in optoelectronics, like light emitting diodes (LEDs) and photodetectors. Additionally, owing to the broken inversion symmetry of the crystalline structure of monolayer TMDs, the spin-valley coupling leads to the realization of novel spin-tronic and valley-tronic devices. \u00a0 \u00a0The topics of this summer school would cover a variety of 2D layered materials and their applications in electronic, optoelectronic, nano-electromechanical systems (NEMS), flexible electronics, high frequency electronics, and quantum devices. The topics would range from theoretical calculations, material synthesis and characterization, to novel fabrication techniques and device performance analysis. \u00a0 The material synthesis methods such as mechanical exfoliation, liquid exfoliation and chemical vapour deposition, which are the most common ways to obtain high quality single to few layers 2D materials, would definitely be addressed. Since 2D materials represent the ultimate physical limit in thickness, nano-characterization is additionally important to correctly resolve and identify the properties of these materials. Therefore, a wide variety of material characterization tools and techniques such as atomic force microscopy, photoluminescence and Raman spectroscopy, transmission electron microscopy, scanning transmission electron microscopy and angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy and their application in characterization of 2D materials would be demonstrated in the framework of this course. Specially, the application of transmission electron microscopy (TEM) in characterization of ultrathin TMDs and the practical issue such as sample preparation techniques would be covered. \u00a0 \u00a0Additionally, deep insight into the experimental measurements and analysis of the data would be provided by the invited speakers. Applications in electronics and optoelectronics, such as field effect transistors, RF devices, nanoelectromechanical systems (NEMS), LEDs, photodetectors, and photovoltaic devices, based on the combination of different 2D materials are also focus topics of our summer school. Research about theoretical calculations, which could predict and simulate the atomic structure, band structure, the effect of various defects and grain boundaries and performance of the devices would be discussed in order to make students understand the advantages and disadvantages of the commonly used calculation tools and obtain\u00a0 a picture of the material properties and device behaviour in an ideal case and in the presence of practical limitations such as crystalline defects and non-transparent contacts. \u00a0 Furthermore, the intriguing mechanical properties of 2D materials such as the extremely low areal mass, the generally high elastic modulus, high intrinsic strain and the coupling between their mechanical and electrical behaviour makes them highly interesting for realization of ultrathin NEMS. In the framework of this summer school, students would become familiar with the NEMS based on 2D materials. Additionally, by attending a hands on workshop, they would learn how to use finite element modelling to simulate the behaviour of NEMS based on 2D materials. Keywords 2D materials, TMDC, layered materials, thin film electoronics, material synthesis Assessment methods Oral presentation/Poster Session"}
{"courseId": "FIN-600", "name": "Game Theory", "description": "The objective of the course is to teach PhD students the basic concepts of non-cooperative game theory (Nash equilibrium, subgame-perfect equilibrium, Bayesian equilibrium, perfect Bayesian equilibrium), so as to provide them with the appropriate tools for application in Finance. Content 1. Static Games of Complete Information 2. Dynamic Games of Complete Information 3. Static Games of Incomplete Information 4. Dynamic Games of Incomplete Information Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Familiarity with the basic concepts of analysis and probability. Assessment methods Multiple."}
{"courseId": "EE-611", "name": "Linear system theory", "description": "The course covers control theory and design for linear time-invariant systems : (i) Mathematical descriptions of systems (ii) Multivariables realizations; (iii) Stability ; (iv) Controllability and Observability; (v) Minimal realizations and coprime fractions; (vi) Pole placement and model matching. Content The course contents include the following main chapters: Mathematical description of linear systems State-space solutions and realizations Stability Controllability and observability Minimal realizations and coprime fractions State feedback and state estimation Keywords Linear dynamic models, Linear systems, Stability, State feedback, State estimation. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses \u00a0 Linear Algebra Differential Equations Automatic Control \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "MATH-260", "name": "Discrete mathematics", "description": "Study of structures and concepts that do not require the notion of continuity. Graph theory, or study of general countable sets are some of the areas that are covered by discrete mathematics. Emphasis will be laid on structures that the students will see again in their later studies. Content Elementary Combinatorics, counting. Graphs, Trees. Partially ordered sets, Set systems. Generating functions. Probabilistic method. Linear Algebra method. Keywords Combinatorics, graphs, set systems Learning Prerequisites Required courses Linear algebra, Analysis Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze the structuresImplement the systemsDemonstrate the concepts for the discrete mathematics Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture with exercises in the classroom. Assessment methods Written exam."}
{"courseId": "MICRO-600", "name": "Emerging Nanopatterning Methods", "description": "See content Content \u00a0 Lithography and pattern transfer. Limits and challenges of classical high-resolution patterning methods. Soft-lithography / microcontact printing Nano-Imprint Lithography (NIL) Nanostencil lithography Scanning probe based lithography Liquid dispensing Self-assembly Nanopattern-enabled applications (electronic/photonic/biology/data storage) \u00a0 Note Part of this course is given by external guest speakers. Keywords Microfabrication, nanofabrication, lithography, MEMS/NEMS, sensors, actuators, scanning probe systems"}
{"courseId": "EE-491(b)", "name": "Project in information technologies", "description": "The student applies the acquired skills to an academic or industrial projects. Content During this project the students will employ the acquired skills to solve a practical problem. The themes of these projects are chosen amongst the research and development activities of one of the laboratories affiliated to the Electrical and Electronic Engineering Section. The lists of projects are available on the Web site of each of the laboratories of the Section of Electrical and Electronic Engineering. In the framework of this project it is possible to participate in an interdisciplinary project with studets from other sections. Keywords Application. Communication. Learning Outcomes Outcomes depending on the project topic Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Write a scientific or technical report.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art.Collect data.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Project based teaching"}
{"courseId": "MATH-360", "name": "Graph theory", "description": "The course aims to introduce the basic concepts and results of modern Graph Theory with special emphasis on those topics and techniques that have proved to be applicable in theoretical computer science and in practice during the past forty years. Content 1. Matchings 2. Connectivity 3. Planarity 4. Coloring 5. Flows in Networks 6. Extremal Graph Theory 7. Ramsey Theory 8. Minors 9. Random Graphs Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Mandatory for IN/SC: Analyse III, Physique g\u00e9n\u00e9rale I, Physique g\u00e9n\u00e9rale II, Probability and statistics Assessment methods WRITTEN EXAM"}
{"courseId": "MSE-231", "name": "Ceramics, structures and properties   TP", "description": "Students analyze crystal structures, point defects and phase relations in ceramic materials and understand their effect on electrical, thermal and electromechanical properties. Properties of ceramic materials are investigated experimentally and results analyzed and interpreted. Content 1. Crystalline structure of the most important ceramics. 2. Point defects and their relationship to functional properties. 3. Mechanical and thermal properties of ceramics 4. Electronic and ionic conductivity in ceramics, dielectric, piezoelectric, and ferroelectric materials and their applications 5. Experimental characterisation of properties of ceramics and practice with instruments for measurements of electrical and electro-mechanical properties. 6. Analysis and interpretation of experimental results 7. Making use of suitable instruments for electromechanic measurements Keywords ceramics; crystal structure; point defects; phase equilibria; conductivity; semiconductor; dielectric; piezoelectric; ferroelectric; electro-mechanical; electrical charaterization; Learning Prerequisites Required courses General physics; General inorganic chemistry; Mathematical analysis; Introduction to materials; Recommended courses Crystallography and diffraction methods; Theory of materials I: from structure to properties Thermodynamics for materials science Important concepts to start the course chemical bonds; phase transitions; atomic and electronic structure of materials; thermodynamics; microstructure of materials; symmetry and materials; Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Hypothesize properties of ceramics based on crystal structure, defect structre and phase contentDerive defect structure of a given material as a function of partial pressure of oxygenAnalyze mechanical and thermal behavior of materialsInterpret results of mechanical, electrical, dielectric, ferroelectric and electro-mechanical measurementsInterpret complex phase diagrams Transversal skills Collect data.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsWrite a scientific or technical report.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Take responsibility for health and safety of self and others in a working context.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives. Teaching methods Lectures and exercises in class (3 h) and laboratory work (1 h) Expected student activities Attendance of lectures, doing exercises during class and at home, reading written material, discussion in class, doing experimental exercises, writing reports on experimental work and analyzing results Assessment methods The final grade is attributed based on the grade of the final written exam (75%) and the average grade of the TP reports (25%). Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MGT-401", "name": "Strategic marketing & technology commercialization", "description": "This course teaches students the power of marketing strategy in helping business organizations successfully commercialize technological innovations. Students will learn how to understand, create, deliver and manage customer value through goods and services, with a focus on technology. Content Welcome to the wonderful world of marketing! Understanding your market But who is my customer? Making the right strategic choices It is all about the brand New products, new services Communication: tell them! But is it worth its price? Distribution: Bring it to the people Even the best marketing plan needs to be implemented Group case presentations Looking back and looking forward Wrap up and rehearsal / case study Meeting the real world: guest speaker presentation \u00a0 \u00a0 Keywords Marketing, marketing strategy, strategic innovation, technology commercialization, new product development, distribution, sales management Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Library research techniques, ability to work in a group environment Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Identify factors that influence successful new product and service introductionsPerform market research to assess opportunitiesApply tools and techniques of conducting marketing researchDevelop a strong strategic and operational marketing planingPresent and defend ideas in front of a group of peers Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Make an oral presentation.Collect data.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking Teaching methods Lectures, mini-case studies, group case projects Expected student activities Class attendance, preparation prior to class, reading written material, preparing a case, conducting library research, working with a group, class presentations Assessment methods 50% Written exam 40% group case study 10% mini-case preparation and presentations"}
{"courseId": "BIO-506", "name": "Lab immersion in industry A", "description": "The student will engage in a laboratory-based project in the field of molecular medicine, neuroscience, or bioengineering. Student projects will emphasize acquisition of practical skills in experimentation and data analysis. Content A typical project will involve \"hands-on\" wet-lab experimentation and data analysis, although theoretical and computationally-oriented projects are also possible. The students must carry out an original research project in the field of molecular medicine, neuroscience, or bioengineering. This project will allow the student to apply the domain and transversal skills acquired during her/his previous studies to concrete research problems. Remark The student must download and complete the form 'Lab immersion in industry' (http://sv.epfl.ch/masters_en; see Directives) and submit it to the SV Section (SSV). The form must be approved and signed by an EPFL supervising professor and the SSV section director. The hosting laboratory may require the student and the supervising professor to sign a non-disclosure agreement (NDA). It is the student's responsibility to determine whether the host company requires an NDA and to ensure that it is signed and returned to the company before starting the lab immersion project. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bachelor in Life Sciences and Technology Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manage an individual research projectDevelop expertise in a specific area of researchImplement appropriate technologies to address the scientific or engineering problem being studiedConduct experiments appropriate to the specific problem being studiedAssess / Evaluate data obtained in wet-lab and computational experimentsInterpret data obtained in wet-lab and computational experimentsOptimize experimental protocols and data presentationPlan experimes to test hypotheses based on obtained results Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingDemonstrate a capacity for creativity.Write a scientific or technical report. Expected student activities Students will focus on hands-on experimentation, which may be wet-lab-based or computer-based, depending on the project. Students will read and discuss assigned papers from the original scientific literature. Expected workload: one semester full time Assessment methods Continuous control Students must produce two written reports (http://sv.epfl.ch/masters_en; see Directives /Cover sheet - master lab immersion industry) during the lab immersion outside EPFL to obtain 22 credits. The two reports should each be maximally 10-15 A4 pages in length, including illustrations, figures, and bibliography. These reports must be signed by the student and countersigned by the head of the host laboratory. The student is responsible for sending her/his written reports (in PDF format with a scan of the signature page) directly to the supervising EPFL professor, who will evaluate them on a pass-fail basis. The supervising professor must transmit the outcomes of these evaluations to the SSV (master-stv@epfl.ch) within one week of the indicated dates below. If validated by the supervising professor and the head of the host laboratory, the two reports are the basis for granting 22 credits 'equivalence'. Additionally, the head of the host laboratory must complete a confidential evaluation form (http://sv.epfl.ch/masters_en; see Directives) and send it directly to the SSV (master-stv@epfl.ch) within two weeks after the student submits the second written report. Dates for submission of the written reports: 1st report: mid-term (week 7) 2nd report: end of semester (week 14) The second report describes the progress made towards the goals outlined in the first report, including: (1) a brief recapitulation of the scientific problem; (2) results obtained and what conclusions can be drawn; (3) whether the original research plan is being followed and what adaptations have been made, with justification; (4) timeline of research for the rest of the semester; (5) a brief paragraph of self-evaluation on the student's integration into the laboratory and progress in mastering the relevant techniques and technologies. The deadline for submission of the written reports must be respected. Failure to submit a report, or late submission, may result in a 'non-acquis' (NA), i.e., non-award of the credits corresponding to the period covered by the report. Supervision Others Typically, the student will be matched with a secondary mentor in the host laboratory (this will usually be a senior PhD student or a postdoctoral fellow), who will take responsibility for the day-to- day supervision and training of the student."}
{"courseId": "CS-455", "name": "Topics in theoretical computer science", "description": "The students gain an in-depth knowledge of several current and emerging areas of theoretical computer science. The course familiarizes them with advanced techniques, and develop an understanding of fundamental questions that underlie some of the key problems of modern computer science. Content Examples of topics to be covered include: Streaming: given a large dataset as\u00a0 a stream, how can we approximate its basic properties using a very small memory footprint? Examples that we will cover include statistical problems such as estimating the number of distinct elements in a stream of data items, finding heavy hitters, frequency moments, as well as graphs problems; Sketching and sampling: what can we learn about the input from a few carefully designed measurements (i.e. a `sketch') of the input, or just a few samples of the input? We will cover results in sparse recovery and property testing that answer this question for several fundamental problems; Sublinear runtime: which problems admit solutions that run faster than it takes to read the entire input?\u00a0 Examples include sublinear time algorithms for graph processing problems, nearest neighbor search and Sparse FFT; Communication: how can we design algorithms for modern distributed computation models (e.g. MapReduce) that have low communication requirements? We will discuss graph sketching, a recently developed approach for designing low communication algorithms for processing dynamically changing graphs. Keywords streaming, sketching, sparse recovery, sublinear algorithms Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bachelor courses on algorithms, complexity theory, and discrete mathematics. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design efficient algorithms for variations of problems discussed in class;Analyze formally space/time/communication complexity of randomized algorithmsProve space/time/communication lower bounds for variations of problems discussed in class;Select appropriately algorithmic tool for big data analysis problem at hand Teaching methods Ex cathedra, homeworks, reading Expected student activities Attendance at lectures, completing exercises, reading written material Assessment methods Continuous control Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Others Electronique forum : Yes"}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-706", "name": "Advanced Earthquake Engineering", "description": "This course deals with the complex problem of seismic evaluation of existing structures; by far more complicated than for new structures. Aims are to: - show how and why the analysis methods need improvements to be used in this context. - provide an insight of the different retrofitting methods. Content Particularity of existing structures in seismic context Vulnerability and seismic evaluation Analysis methods Strength and displacement based evaluation Retrofitting methods (design and technology)"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-430", "name": "Scaling laws in micro- and nanosystems", "description": "Overview of the dominant physical effects and scaling of laws that applies when downsizing sensors and actuators in microsystems. Show the limits and breakdown of scaling laws in miniaturization. Several examples taken from research articles are presented for each case. Content Introduction to scaling lawsScaling of classical mechanical systems, scaling of classical electrical systems, breakdown in scaling, quantum breakdown \u00a0Thermal effectsConduction, convection, dynamics, breakdown, thermal micro-actuators, microreactors Mechanical devicesMass-spring model, mechanical noise, squeeze film effects\u00a0Electrical devicesElectrostatic micro-actuators, electrostatic breakdown, tunnel sensors, coils and inductors, electromagnetic micro-actuators, magnetostriction, magnetic beads\u00a0MicrofluidicsLiquid flow, gas flow, mixing, surface tension, entropy trapping, chromatography\u00a0ElectrokineticsDielectrophresis, EHD and MHD pumps, electrowetting, electroosmosis. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Sensors (MICRO-330) very strongly recommended, and content will be assumed to be mastered. Important concepts to start the course Students must have a solid mastery of physics (mechanics, heat transfer, eletromagnetism, fluid dynamics), chemistry, and be familiar with MEMS fundamentals (concepts, basic microfabrication) and miniaturized sensors. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze MEMS devices to determine optimum actuation principle for a given size-scaleEstimate microsystems performance based on scaling argumentsJustify choice of sensing or actuation principleExploit scaling to design a MEMS device Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods ex cathedra teaching Expected student activities self study, read reference book chapters and papers Assessment methods oral exam Resources Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Micromachined transducers handbook / KovacsFundamentals of microfabrication / Madou"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-431", "name": "Materials and technology of microfabrication", "description": "The student will learn procedures and applications of modern microfabrication technologies, as practiced in a clean room environment, in particular modern techniques that go beyond the classical steps of deposition, lithography and etching, with a focus on materials and multidisciplinarity. Content 1. Elements of mainstream Si technology 2. Multilayer poly-Si micromachining 3. Glass microfabrication 4. Polymer microfabrication 5. Bonding and gluing technologies 6. Electroplating and the LIGA technique 7. Biosensor technologies 8. 3D printing or added manufacturing 9. Microfluidic bioseparation techniques\u00a0 10.\u00a0Magnetic labs-on-a chip Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Microstructure fabrication technologies I. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose for micro-engineered devices for a specific application.Design a process workflow for microfabrication.Differentiate the potential of different technologies for a given application.Identify the role of basic physical and chemical phenomena in modern miniaturized devices.Contextualise the use of microfabrication techniques for a given application. Transversal skills Make an oral presentation.Summarize an article or a technical report.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures. Teaching methods Lectures and personal study and presentation of relevant papers related to microfabrication by the student. Assessment methods Oral examination"}
{"courseId": "MGT-429", "name": "Business information systems", "description": "Global overview of Business Information Systems needs and offerings: from IS strategy definition to IS implementation projects management. Content Starting from informational needs of a company, we will see how to identify and model information flows. We will then look at all the different existing types of packaged Information Systems, to point out their structure, functionalities, as well as their strengths and weaknesses. With a starting focus on internally-managed information, we will look at ERP, WMS and MES systems, Reporting and Business Intelligence applications, as well as Document Management and Workflow systems. Looking then at inter-company or company-customers interactions, we will approach CRM and APS systems, as well as e-Commerce and e-Business infrastructures. All these systems will be put in perspective from what an appropriate IS strategy should be, in support to business objectives, to all the operational value of using the appropriate softwares and technologies (RFID, Bar-Codes, voice recognition, ...). Keywords Information Systems, ERP, BI, CRM, e-Business Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Identify information needs of an organisationModel information flows and data structurePropose logical solutions adapted to particular situations Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods The course will combine classic lectures and more active learning methods as Case Studies and Team Works. Students will regularly have to put in practice the theoretical knowledge acquired. Some practitioners will possibly be invited to illustrate the concepts, notions and tools presented. Expected student activities Mandatory participation to classes, exercises and team work assignments Home work, readings and studies required Assessment methods 10%\u00a0 Individual & group assignments 90%\u00a0 Final individual exam"}
{"courseId": "HUM-427(a)", "name": "History of globalization I", "description": "This course is intended to contribute to the students' knowledge of crucial issues related to the phenomenon known as globalization, namely: humanitarianism, public health and development. The course critically examines a number of practices, the politics, interests and visions of stakholders. Content Humanitarianism, public health and development during the 20th century Development has been and is a central issue of the 20th and beginning of the 21th century. This course will focus on two major topics related to development: humanitarianism and public health. By humanitarianism, we refer to benevolent deeds undertaken beyond national frontiers on behalf of individuals, communities, groups or entire nations in dire straits by a variety of actors (i.e. organizations governmental and non-governmental associations, philanthropic foundations). The course will focus on humanitarian and public health's actors (non governmental organizations such as M\u00e9decins sans Fronti\u00e8re; international organizations; philanthropic organizations, for example the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation). We will invite some of these actors and visit some of these institutions. We will also study these actors' tools, such as photography, movie, mass campaign vaccinations. We will pay attention to conflict and post conflict, imperial/colonial and post-colonial periods, during which development became a politically, economically, and socially relevant international issue. The course draws attention to the importance of historical perspectives, showing that global health or humanitarian operations are not inventions of the post-Cold War period but have a longer history. Our aim is to show continuities and ruptures between then and now. Case studies will be favoured in this class. The emphasis will also be put on extra-European countries. The course is organized in two parts: a first part, which provides a general overview of the topic, and a second part during which students work on their projects. Keywords History - Gobalisation - Development\u00a0 - Humanitarianism - Public Health. Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Abilty to speak and read English Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Define and construct a case study using as a starting point a general question.Formulate a specific question related to the topic of the courseSituate the question temporally and spatially.Identify, analyse and explain the principal characteristics of your questionRespond appropriately to a critical commentDraft a coherent argument.Give an oral presentation explaining the issues relevant to the subject of the written report.Identify and defend, orally, two important points raised in the written report.Formulate and suggest constructive criticism of another report. Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingTake feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Make an oral presentation.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods The first semester will consist of\u00a0ex-cathedra\u00a0sessions, conferences of experts, visit to museums and the definition of the project. The second semester will consist of a project that the students will work in groups of two or three. Expected student activities Class attendance; reading and analysis of a scientific article; written report and oral presentations. Further details will be provided at the start of the academic year. Assessment methods Evaluation on a semester basis (grade associated to 3 ECTS). During the first semester, the evaluation will cover one small report on a fieldwork and critical assessment of a museum visit. The spring semester evaluation will cover the drafting of the report, to be developped in groups or individually,\u00a0its oral presentation and the constructive criticism of another report. Further information will be provided at the start of the academic year. Supervision Others Students will be supervised by the two professors, Thomas David and Davide Rodogno, and an assistant, Mrs. Yi-Tan Lin. The professors and the assistant can be contacted at all times by e-mail.\u00a0"}
{"courseId": "CS-323(a)", "name": "Operating systems implementation", "description": "Implementation of basic concepts of operating systems in Linux Content Implementation of system calls, interrupt handling, process and memory management and file systems Keywords Operating systems implementation, Linux Learning Prerequisites Required courses CS-206 Parallelisme and concurrency CS-207 Systems programming CS-323 Operating systems (preferably to be taken concurrently) \u00a0 Strictly no admission without concurrent or prior CS-323. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Implement key components of operating systems Teaching methods Introduction and discussion of assignments in exercise sessions. Expected student activities Attendance at exercise sessions. Implementation of serveral programming projects. Assessment methods Programming assignments. Equal value for each assignment. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "HUM-348", "name": "Entrepreneurship", "description": "This course provides an introduction to the topic of entrepreneurship, the process of new firm creation and the commercialization of technologies. Content We will go into the following topics according to the following plan: Importance of Entrepreneuship for Economic Development and National Competitiveness Entrepreneurial Opportunity Identification Challenges in Setting up and Growing a New Firm Financing an Innovative Firm Management of Technology Ventures Keywords New Firm, Entrepreneurial spirit, Business Plan, Technology Commercialization Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze markets for innovative products/servicesCompare business activities of competing firmsDecide strategies for new firmsDevelop business plan for new start-upsExplore business opportunities Transversal skills Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods Teaching with active participation of students, project (business plan) and presentations. \u00a0 Expected student activities Active participation of students in class, business\u00a0idea generation individually and in groups, development of a business project, discussions in class, presentations in class. Assessment methods Presentation in group; 2 individual works; oral presentation; project group (Business plan) Supervision Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "CH-452", "name": "Computational methods in molecular quantum mechanics", "description": "This course will discuss the main methods for the simulation of quantum time dependent properties for molecular systems. Basic notions of density functional theory and of its time dependent version will be covered in the context of adiabatic and non adiabatic dynamics. Content Short repetition Introduction to classical molecular dynamics simulations for molecular systems Density Functional theory, basic theorems \u00a0 Advanced topics Time dependent Schroedinger equation for a system of nuclei and electrons. The coupled channels equation Representing excited electronic states, Time dependent density functional theory Adiabatic and non adiabatic molecular dynamics: approximate methods for numerical solution Nuclear quantum effects. \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Basic concepts of quantum mechanics basic knowledge of a programming language (C, fortran, Matlab) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Solve theoretical problems in quantum chemistry and physicsDecide which theoretical method is more appropriate to perform quantum molecular dynamics simulationsProve the basic theorems of DFT and TDDFTSketch excited state reaction paths of photoexcited molecular systemsJustify the selection of a computational scheme for the solution of a given problem on excited state dynamicsDerive different solutions for the combined electron-nuclear dynamicsDiscuss the evolution of the different electronic structure methods for electronic excited statesAssess / Evaluate the range of application of different approximate methods for excited states quantum molecular dynamics Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods Blackboard and coding excercises Expected student activities Solution of take home problem sets Development (in team) of small research project, computational or based on literature Oral presentation of research project \u00a0 Assessment methods 1/3 Midterm take home exam 1/3 Presentation of research project 1/3 Oral exam on course topic Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Others Office hours to be determined by appointment via email"}
{"courseId": "CH-617", "name": "High pressure in chemical kinetics and equilibria", "description": "To familiarise the students with the theory and the practice of the high pressure chemistry, working up to 2000 bar pressure. Working with pressuriseg gases. Content IntroductionPressure effect on chemical kineticsPressure effect on chemical equilibriaHigh pressure UV-Vis spectrophotometryHigh pressure FT-IR spectroscopyHigh pressure stopped-flow methodWorking with pressurised gasesMedium pressure NMR measurements Note Next session December 2017 (block 1 week) Max. 8 participants possible"}
{"courseId": "MSE-403", "name": "Materials Science", "description": "The student will acquire an understanding of the basic concepts of materials in general and a deeper knowledge in metallic and nonmetallic inorganic materials and in polymers Content 1. Atomic structure and bonding in solids 2. Metals and their alloys and ceramics - Structures and derived properties- Characterization- Phase diagrams- Defects in solids and resulting properties 3. Polymers- Macromolecular dispersity and characteristics- Basic polymerization mechanisms- Structures in dilute solution and solid state - Characterization 4. Mechanical properties of polymers, metals and alloys, ceramics Keywords Atomic structure and bonding Phase diagrams Polymers Metals Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Organic Chemistry, bio-oriented Chemistry Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Discuss the basic concepts of the structure and organization of materialsCompare the differencen in structure and properties of different classes of materialsSketch the prepration and processing, structure and properties of polymers, metals and ceramics Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals. Teaching methods Lectures with exercises Assessment methods written exam"}
{"courseId": "MSE-657", "name": "CCMX Winter School - Additive Manufacturing of Metals and the Material Science Behind It'", "description": "This course is designed to cover a series of important scientific aspects related to the field of additive manufacturing of metals and alloys and to provide an in-depth review of corresponding fundamentals. It features 9 modules consisting of presentations given by lecturers and the participants. Content Powders and Additive Manufacturing Laser/e-beam - material interactions Atomistic modelling of solidification in out-of-equilibrium conditions Fundamentals of rapid solidification Optimization of alloys for AM In situ experiments with Xrays and neutrons at large facilities Post-treatments, microstructure evolutions and properties EBM processing and contrast with the SLM approach Important aspects to be considered in industrial applications \u00a0 The course is organised as a 5 day retreat to allow for extensive informal interactions. Keywords Additive manufactuing, metals, atomistic modelling, rapid solidification, alloys for additive manufacturing, in situ experiments, Laser/e-beam - material interactions Atomistic modelling of solidification in out-of-equilibrium conditions Fundamentals of rapid solidification Optimization of alloys for AM In situ experiments with Xrays and neutrons at large facilities Post-treatments, microstructure evolutions and properties EBM processing and contrast with the SLM approach Important aspects to be considered in industrial applications \u00a0 The course is organised as a 5 day retreat to allow for extensive informal interactions. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Participants should be educated in materials science and engineering, physics, mechanical engineering or physical chemistry to benefit the most from this course. Assessment methods Oral presentation (prepared based upon a series of publications provided by the lecturers)"}
{"courseId": "MSE-442", "name": "Introduction to crystal growth by epitaxy", "description": "This is an interactive course explaining: 1. The main physical and chemical concepts to understand epitaxy of crystalline thin films. 2. What determines the morphology, composition and structure of a material grown per epitaxy. Content Structure and energy of epitaxial interfaces. Mechanism of growth of epitaxial films. The role of surfactants in epitaxial growth Phase diagrams in crystal growth. Particular caseof III-V semiconductors. Epitaxy techniques Epitaxy of nanostructures Keywords epitaxy, thin films, heterostructures, quantum wells,quantum dots, nanowires. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Argue the physical and chemical processes giving place to the growth of materialsApply the knowledge acquired for processes of epitaxy of new materials Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Collect data.Respect the rules of the institution in which you are working.Take responsibility for environmental impacts of her/ his actions and decisions.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingTake feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, visits to laboratory Expected student activities Attend courses, oral presentations, reports Assessment methods Oral presentations, reports Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-707", "name": "Microstructuring of glass", "description": "The course will provide fundamental key aspects governing glass as a material and the microstructuring of glass using a variety of techniques, like dry and wet etching, mechanical and laser machining, as well as sol gel technology. Also concrete application examples will be discussed. Content 1. Glass as a materialDefinition, structure, composition, properties and kinds of glasses \u00a0 2. Techniques for the microstructuring of glassWet etching, dry etching, ultrasonic drilling, powder blasting, laser structuring and photosensitive glass \u00a0 3. Replication of glass microstructuresThe sol-gel process (spin-on-glass), photosensitive spin-on-glass, the replication process (moulding, de-moulding, annealing) \u00a0 4. Bonding of glassAnodic bonding, fusion bonding, pressure-assisted bonding, chemical bonding \u00a0 5. Applications of glass microstructuresa. Optical systems (Wave guides, gratings, lenses)b. Bio-chemical systems (Bio-separation and microfluidics, biosensors)c. Mechanical systems (Pressure sensors, inkjet printing heads) Keywords Glass, microstructuring, replication, sol-gel process, bonding"}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-443", "name": "Advanced composites in engineering structures", "description": "The objective of the course is to: 1. Introduce topics in properties, processing, mechanical behavior, characterization, analysis and structural design of Fiber Reinforced Composites 2. Help students develop their research skills through independent investigations on research topics. Content 1. Introduction-Basic ideas about the use of composite materials, fibers, resins, applications. 2. Manufacturing of composite materials-composite components. 3. Basic mechanics of composites-Anisotropic theory of elasticity. 4. Mechanics of laminates. 5. Classical lamination theory. 6. Introduction to structural design. 7. Laboratory experience: Fabrication and testing of laminates. 8. Failure of FRP laminates. 9. Fatigue of composite materials.10. Joints and joining techniques. Keywords Composites, engineering structures, mechanics of composites, laminates analysis. Learning Prerequisites Required courses No obligation. Recommended courses Basic knowledge of physics, mechanics of materials, mathematics. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze the behavior of composite structures.Design composite structures.Assess / Evaluate the strength of composite structures.Manage design projects.Express their opinion on design projects.Define needs and set priorities.Organize their work (especially when working in a team).Create complete technical reports. Transversal skills Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsEvaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Negotiate effectively within the group. Teaching methods Lectures will be given in the class assisted by powerpoint presentations. Lecture notes will be distributed before each class. Expected student activities Class participation. Homework (not obligatory). Assessment methods Project report and oral exam (based on project presentation). Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "ENV-306", "name": "Ecotoxicology", "description": "Ecotoxicology aims to understand the impact of chemicals and other stressors on organisms in the environment with a particular focus on population-, community- and ecosystem effects. Based on a mechanistic understanding, the ultimate goal is to be able to protect the respective environment. Content This course focuses on basic concepts in ecotoxicology and mechanistic consideration for risk assessment. Topics include: Source and behavior of chemicals in the environment Bioavailability Organisms and biological test protocols Quantification of biological effects Toxicokinetics (Processes of internal distribution, metabolism and excretion) Toxicodyamics (Processes leading to effects in organisms) Linking effects from molecular to ecosystem response Concepts of dealing with chemical mixtures, multiple stressors and organisms Environmental risk assessment\u00a0 Keywords Fate and effect of chemicals in the environment, environmental toxicology, risk assessment Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Some basic knowledge in environmental chemistry and biology are of advantage Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: interpret chemical properitiescompute chemical distributionevaluate toxicity datajudge chemical risksanticipate modes of toxic actionsynthesize information regarding risks of chemicalscharacterize ways of exposure in environmentcharacterize chemical distribution in an organism Transversal skills Collect data.Make an oral presentation.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Negotiate effectively within the group.Take responsibility for health and safety of self and others in a working context. Teaching methods Lecture and exercises. Exercises focus on practical issues, such as estimation of exposure based on knowledge on chemical caracteristics and interpretation of ecotoxicological information available from public databases. Expected student activities working in pairs on semester exercise (data base search and interpretation); working on exercises throughout the course; preparing a poster and presenting it at the end of the course Assessment methods Exercises 20 %, written exam 80 % (closed books) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No Others contact via email Resources Notes/Handbook The material covered will be available as pdf on moodle prior to each class. Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=9671"}
{"courseId": "BIO-491", "name": "New tools and research strategies in personalized medicine", "description": "We will define the concept of personalized health, describe the underlying technologies, the technological, legal and ethical challenges that the field faces today, and how they are being met. Content Under supervision of a coach, you will tackle a specific problem, evaluating its basis and proposing solutions. The output will be a short report and an oral defense of your project. Learning Prerequisites Required courses None Learning Outcomes Understand the tenets of personalized healthDiscuss new technologies within the context of personalized health Transversal skills Summarize an article or a technical report.Make an oral presentation.Write a scientific or technical report.Manage priorities.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Collect data.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsContinue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions. Teaching methods Ex-cathedra lectures, discussions, coaching, preparation of a grant proposal, oral defense of the proposal. Expected student activities Preparation of project Oral defense of project Active participation to discussions Work in small groups Assessment methods Oral: quality of slides, clarity and content of presentation, ability to answer questions Project: relevance to personalized medicine, explanation of relevant background, explanation\u00a0of research strategy The student's contribution to discussions will contribute to the final evaluation Supervision Assistants No Others Coach and contact persons for project"}
{"courseId": "MATH-468", "name": "Numerical methods for electromagnetics", "description": "The aim of the course is to give a theoretical and practical knowledge of the finite element method for electromagnetics problems both in static and time harmonic regime. Content Keywords Maxwell equations, Finite element method, Galerkin approximation, Edge elements Learning Prerequisites Required courses Analysis I-II-III-IV, Numerical analysis, Introduction to the finite elements method Recommended courses Functional Analysis I, Measure and Integration, Programming Important concepts to start the course Basic knowledge of functional analysis, Banach and Hilbert spaces, L^p spaces. Some knowledge on theory of elliptic PDEs, weak solutions, existence and uniqueness. Basic concepts in numerical analysis: stability, convergence, condition number, solution of linear systems, quadrature formulae, polynomial interpolation, the finite element method. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose an appropriate discretisation scheme to solve a specific PDE, with a specific focus on electromagnetic problemsAnalyse numerical errorsInterpret results of a computation in the light of theoryProve theoretical properties of discretisation schemesState theoretical properties of an electromagnetic problem and corresponding discretisation schemePropose a theoretical and numerical solution to a mini-project on a topic going beyond the material of the courseFormalise the solution of a mini-project in a scientific report Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Write a scientific or technical report.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods Ex cathedra lectures, exercises in the classroom and computer lab sessions. Expected student activities Attendance of lectures Completing exercises Solving simple problems on the computer Work out a small project and write a technical report Assessment methods Written exam evaluation of a scientific report on a mini-project"}
{"courseId": "ENG-607", "name": "Photomechanics for Engineers", "description": "Basic notions, Interferometry, TV Holography, Moir\u00e9, Digital image correlation, Photoelasticity, Fiber Optics Sensors Content Basic notions Common types of interferometers Holographic interferometry TV Holography Phase Shifting interferometry Moir\u00e9 Digital image correlation Photoelasticity Fiber Optics Sensors Hands-on practical work- \u00a0 Note URL: http://people.epfl.ch/pramod.rastogi"}
{"courseId": "MSE-652", "name": "Introduction to scanning electron microscopy microanalysis techniques", "description": "Modern Scanning Electron Microscopes, when combined with focused ion beams (Dual beam FIBs), provide a larger number of multimodal imaging and different analytical methods. The course format consists of introductory lectures, lectures on advanced techniques and practical work. Content The following subjects will be presented during the course: Basics of the scanning electron microscopy and focused ion beam instruments (construction principles, signals, interaction with the sample) Advanced imaging modes: STEM, low tension microscopy, high vacuum, ion channeling Advanced microstructure investigation with EBSD and transmission EBSD orientation mapping (EBSD strain and stress analyses with cross correlation technique) Chemical analyses with EDS, WDS and '-XRF Chemical depth profile with FIB-TOF-SIMS Raman spectrometry for phase and strain/stress analyses The techniques will be explored in small groups on real samples in front of SEMs. Note This course is open to participants with a basic background in materials science, mechanical engineering, chemical engineering, micro-technology or physics. Keywords Scanning Electron Microscopy; microanalysis, multimodal imaging, analytical methods, chemical analysis Assessment methods Oral"}
{"courseId": "EE-429", "name": "Fundamentals of VLSI design", "description": "The course objective is to introduce the fundamental principles of VLSI circuit design, to examine the basic building blocks of large-scale digital integrated circuits, and to provide hands-on design experience with professional design (EDA) platforms. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design main components of large-scale digital integrated systems Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools"}
{"courseId": "EE-539", "name": "Electric filters", "description": "Introduction to approximation and synthesis methods for analog filters. Modern realization technologies are described including their limitations Content Analog circuits and systems (reminders) Definition of the analog filtering problem Theory of a non-dissipative 2-ports Analytic approximations Numerical approximations Phase shifters Circuit approximation Active filters Introduction to digital filtering Switched capacitor filters Keywords Passive electrical filters. Active electrical filters. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Nothing specific to mention except what is indicated in \"Required courses (recommended)\" Recommended courses Electronics Circuits and Systems I and II Important concepts to start the course Transfer function definition s-parameters definition Kirchoff laws Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate the transfer function of a filterDesign an electrical filterDecide the order of the electrical filterAnalyze a Tschebcheff transfer functionAnalyze a Butterworth transfer functionEstimate the phase and modulus of the filter transfer functionCompose the transfer function of a low-pass, band-pass, low-pass filterElaborate the topology of the electrical filter Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Manage priorities.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods Ex-cathedra courses and exercises Expected student activities Attendance to lectures and exercises sessions Assessment methods Oral examination\u00a0after the end of the semester Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "CS-307", "name": "Introduction to multiprocessor architecture", "description": "This course builds upon the important pre-requisites (computer architecture, system-on-chip and concurrency) to provide the students with the foundations of multiprocessor architecture, which are the building blocks in all modern digital platforms from embedded systems to supercomputers. Content - Multiprocessors, multi/manycores- Cache coherence- Memory consistency- Synchronization hardware- Interconnection networks- Multicore cache hierarchies Keywords Multiprocessors, multicores, manycores, cache coherence, memory consistency models, memory ordering, manycore cache hierarchies, interconnection networks, synchronization Learning Prerequisites Required courses CS-206 Parallelism & concurrency CS-208 Computer architecture / Architecture des Ordinateurs Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design and evaluate a snoopy cache-coherent multicore processorDesign and evaluate memory consistency modelsDesign architectural support for synchronizationDesign and evaluate on-chip interconnection networksDesign and evaluate a multi-core/parallel compute Teaching methods Lectures, homework and project Assessment methods mid-term and final Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "EE-617", "name": "Wireless Transceivers: Radio Architectures, System and Circuit Design", "description": "The students will learn about modern RF transceiver architectures used in the radio section of advanced wireless transceivers. Various architectures, RF system design and circuit implementation will be discussed. Content Fundamentals Introduction to wireless communications, modulation, up- and down-conversion, FDD vs TDD systems. Receiver Architectures Low-IF vs direct-conversion, traditional vs analog-lite architectures, cognitive radio and its limitations. Receiver Impairments Thermal and flicker noise, phase noise and reciprocal mixing, intermodulation, image rejection, DC-offset, in-band drooping. Receiver RF System and Circuit Design Introduction into receiver system budgeting, receiver implementation possibilities and their challenges. Transmitter Architectures Low-IF vs direct-conversion, polar vs. Cartesian transmitters. Transmitter Impairments Out-of-band noise, distortion and adjacent channel leakage, image rejection, DC offset, in-band drooping. Transmitter RF System and Circuit Design Introduction to transmitter system budgeting, transmitter implementations and their challenges. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Wireless receivers: algorithms and architectures. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Discuss advantages and drawbacks of various transceivers architecturesPropose an architecture for given transceivers requirementsElaborate a basic system budget for the proposed architectureEstimate receiver and transmitter impairments and include these in the system budget Teaching methods Ex cathedra with computer exercises/labs."}
{"courseId": "COM-404", "name": "Information theory and coding", "description": "The mathematical principles of communication that govern the compression and transmission of data and the design of efficient methods of doing so. Content 1. Mathematical definition of information and the study of its properties.2. Source coding: efficient representation of message sources.3. Communication channels and their capacity.4. Coding for reliable communication over noisy channels.5. Multi-user communications: multi access and broadcast channels.6. Lossy source coding : approximate representation of message sources.7. Information Theory and statistics\u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Formulate the fundamenal concepts of information theory such as entropy, mutual information, channel capacityElaborate the principles of source coding and data transmissionAnalyze source codes and channel codesApply information theoretic methods to novel settings Teaching methods Ex cathedra exercises Assessment methods With continuous control"}
{"courseId": "CH-411", "name": "Cellular Signalling", "description": "Presentation of selected signalling pathways with emphasis on both the mechanism of action of the molecules involved, molecular interactions and the role of their spatio-temporal organization within the cell, considering cellular dimensions and conditions. Content Ligand binding and receptor activation.Receptor systems in plasma membrane, cytosol and nucleus. Lipids, proteins and molecular interactions. Regulation of activity and covalent modification. Spatial and temporal organisation of molecules and signalling efficacy. Keywords Cellular signalling, molecular interactions, space and time, cellular conditions, receptor, ligand, membranes, protein modifications Learning Prerequisites Required courses Biochemistry I \u00a0 (CH-111) Biophysics I & II (CH-311 & 312) Recommended courses Biochemistry II (CH 313) Reaction kinetics Important concepts to start the course Biochemistry, cell and organells, membranes, proteins, biophysical methods. physical chemistry Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Integrate molecular and cellular eventsDiscuss cellular signalling pathwaysAnalyze scientific literatureAssess / Evaluate mechanisms of regulationContextualise receptor-ligand interactionsElaborate Spatio-temporal organisation and regulationEstimate using logical deduction and common senese Teaching methods Lectures & discussion Expected student activities Active participation to lectures; read and interpret scientific reviews and papers Assessment methods Oral exam, without preparation Supervision Others during course or on rendez-vous"}
{"courseId": "MSE-424", "name": "Fracture of materials", "description": "This course covers elementary fracture mechanics and its application to the fracture of engineering materials. Content The ideal strength, stress concentration factors, Griffith's (thermodynamic) analysis of fracture; G and R Irwin's analysis; the stress intensity factor K, equivalence between Irwin's and Griffith's approaches to LEFM Brittle fracture, Weibull statistics, subcritical crack growth in brittle solids Influence of crack tip plasticity: small scale yielding, embrittlement of metallic materials, large scale yielding: COD and J-integral approaches, cohesive zones, R-curve behavior and its consequences for the onset of crack instability Cyclic loading: parameters and cyclic plasticity; crack nucleation, crack growth, fracture mechanics applied to fatigue; Paris's law, damage tolerant design, crack tip plasticity under cyclic loading Overview of testing methods for fracture toughness and fatigue crack growth Large-strain ductile failure and the\u00a0limitations of elastic-plastic fracture mechanics: the essential work of fracture (EWF): fracture of hyper-elastic materials and very soft materials Kinetic and dynamic effects in fracture, rapid crack propagation (RCP) and crack arrest: high-speed fracture testing Time-dependent fracture: viscoelastic fracture mechanics: special case of creep facture: slow crack growth in polymers under long-term static and dynamic loading: stress-corrosion cracking: thermal fatigue. Fracture in highly heterogeneous and highly anisotropic media: bi-materials interfaces: specific test methods for rigid, viscoelastic and hyper-elastic substrates: testing of soft adhesives.\u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Continuum mechanics, MSE-203, MX, Drezet Materials mechanics, MSE-205, MX, Bourban Deformation of materials, MSE-310, MX, Log\u00e9 Recommended courses Surfaces and interfaces, MSE-304, MX, Ceriotti \u00a0 Building materials Laboratory work, MSE-322, MX, Boehm Courjault Scrivener Sofia \u00a0 Ceramics, structures and properties TP, MSE-231, MX, Damjanovic Stolichnov \u00a0 Metals and alloys Laboratory Work, MSE-236, MX, Drezet Weber \u00a0 Composites technology, MSE-440, MX, Bourban Michaud \u00a0 Materials selection, MSE-474, MX, Michler Siegmannm Vaucher Polym\u00e8res, structures, propri\u00e9t\u00e9s, MSE-230, MX, Plummer Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Decide on the structural viability of structures containing defectsDeduce the largest defect that can be tolerated in a structure under loadPredict the lifetime of structures susceptible to gradual crack growthDesign tests to assess the resistance of materials to fractureAnalyze causes for mechanical failureAssess / Evaluate how, and how often a structure should be checked for defectsHypothesize the mechanical performance of materials knowing their structure Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Collect data.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking Expected student activities Attendance at lectures, completion of exercices Assessment methods Written exam Supervision Office hours Yes"}
{"courseId": "MSE-804", "name": "Advances in Additive Manufacturing for Polymers in Bioengineering, Electronics and Material Science", "description": "The summer school will focus on Additive manufacturing of polimeric materials in different fields: Life Science, Material Science and Electronics. Its aim is to give insights on the advances in the field, either in form of lecture of specialists from academia and industries and workshops. Content Additive Manufacturing (AM) is an emerging process used to produce three-dimensional objects from a digital model, allowing a precise layer-by-layer deposition of material under computer control. In the last years, AM has emerged as a technology holding the potential to transform major industry by offering higher flexibility and affordability for complex products. However, a lack of understanding thermophysical properties and transformation of materials, especially for polymer materials, keeps the technology still far from its real potential. The aim of this Summer School is to give the practical and theoretical bases of Additive Manufacturing, focusing on three practical applications: Biofabrication (3D Printing for Life Sciences), Flexible Electronics and Composite Materials. State-of-the-art and research/industrial cutting edge experiences will be discussed.\u00a0 Furthermore the Summer School will include hands-on workshops, such as 3D Scanning and Modeling, and case studies. \u00a0 Day 1: Introduction to Additive manufacturing; Fused Deposition Modelling introduction;Photopolymerization introduction; Future perspective on AM for polymers. \u00a0 Day 2: Insights on advanced and composites materials; Insights on Flexible Electronics, Inights on Biofabrication; Workshop 1. \u00a0 Day 3: Division in groups and case study (Biofabrication (A), Flexible Electronics (B) and Materials (C) ); Workshop 2. \u00a0 Day 4: Continuation of the case study; Companies day. Day 5: Final presentation; Awards and greetings. Note Official email: 3dcamp@epfl.ch Keywords Biofabrication, Extrusion, Photopolymerization, Composites, Functional Electronics, Additive Manufacturing. Assessment methods Oral presentation/Poster Session"}
{"courseId": "CH-415", "name": "Chemistry of small biological molecules", "description": "The main goal of the course is to provide students with relevant background on available chemical tools (predominantly small molecules) that are used to solve important problems in biology and medicine. Content 1. Short overview: Chemical synthesis of biological molecules such as proteins, DNA, RNA, peptides, lipids, carbohydrates, and antibodies.2. Methods to chemically modify, recognize, and modulate proteins, DNA, RNA, peptides, lipids, carbohydrates, and antibodies with small molecules. 2.1 Protein modification methods: - modifications of N- and C-terminus - cysteine and lysine modification methods - tyrosine and tryptophan modifications 2.2 Native chemical ligation reactions: - ligation of two peptides - protein trans-splicing - expressed protein ligation 2.3 Bioorthogonal Chemistry based on unique amino acid sequences - bisboronic fluorogenic acid reagents - enzyme modifications of peptide tags - using transition metals to detect peptide tags through chelation 2.4 Studies of biomolecules that are not genetically encoded (glycans, lipids, metabolites) - requirements for bioorthogonal reactions - condensation methods of amine nucleophiles with ketones and aldehydes - Staudinger ligation of triarylphosphines and azides - the [3 2] cycloaddition of alkynes and azides - bioorthogonal ligation with alkenes 2.5 Bioorthogonal group incorporation into various biomolecules - proteins: labeling via residue specific modification, site-specific modifications (genetic method), combination of bioorthogonal chemical reporter strategy and activity based protein profiling. 2.6 Labeling of and imaging glycans 2.7 Labeling of and imaging of lipids 2.8 Labeling of and imaging of nucleic acids 2.9 Labeling and detection of other small metabolites3. Basic principles of successful probe design - solubility, pharmacokinetics, brightness, photo-stability4. Optical in vitro and in vivo imaging and its applications to study molecular signatures of targeted tissues. Bioluminescent and fluorescent imaging.5. Applications of PET and MIR imaging as a new tool to visualize biological processes of medicinal significance.6. Other imaging modalities and their applications in medicine and biology - optoacoustic, ultrasound, DNP.7. Case studies: successful applications of chemical biology approaches in the area of oligonucleotide therapeutics, synthetic vaccines, DNA-encoded libraries, and antibody drug conjugates, proteomics, stem cells and regenerative medicine. Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "AR-402(y)", "name": "Th\u00e9orie et critique du projet MA2 (Huang)", "description": "This studio explores meaningful form generating processes by the use of algorithmic and parametric tools and introduces the notion of growth typologies. Our studio site will be in Singapore, our programme the procedural design of an innovation building prototypology. Content The advent of new digital technologies has had a twofold impact on architectural thinking and urban design, transforming, on one hand, the processes for form generation and design production through algorithmic and parametric technologies, and, on the other hand, enabling an escape from the static fate of the built environment by facilitating dynamic interaction between inhabitants and their surrounding. Our interest in the orientation 'Artificial Morphogenesis' is to explore meaningful form generating processes by the use of algorithmic and parametric tools and introduce the notion of growth typologies in architectural and urban design thinking. In particular, we examine the potential of responsive morphogenetic design to explore intuitive form finding processes that address bio-climatic and socio-economic challenges. This studio (the \"Singapore studio\") is the second in a planned series of design research projects focused on the theme of data-driven architectural design. While developing a base of digital evidence specific to each site, each studio will explore novel means of deploying this data to support design and generate form. The intellectual aim of the studio is to question the extent to which the data-scape can artificially generate urban form. Our interest is directed at the decoding and recoding of two distinct domains of knowledge: exteriority which represents a many-layered geographic condition and anteriority which represents the embedded knowledge of local architectural typologies and systems. While the exteriority of geographic data is crucial to our research, we place a primary emphasis on the generative potential of typology- what we have called \"growth typologies\". Decoding anterior form and then recoding and deploying it across new territories allows us to challenge the role of architecture in urban developments of increased scale and complexity.\u00a0 \u00a0 Keywords ' Data-driven Design ' Parametricism ' Morphogenesis ' Artificial Design ' Tropical Architecture ' Singapore ' Climate and Form\u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses N/A Recommended courses AR-401(Y) Th\u00e9orie et critique du projet MA1 (Huang). Important concepts to start the course (1) Parametric Methods: In alignment with the goals of the morphogenesis orientation, this studio will explore meaningful form generating processes by the use of algorithmic and parametric tools and introduce the notion of growth typologies in architectural and urban design thinking. (2) Digital Generative Design Tools: We assert that it is precisely the new wave of digital tools (scripting, parametric modeling, and associative geometry) that enable the type of approach which is forwarded by the studio's agenda. The ability to organize and leverage information permits the architect to approach projects of new scales and complexity. The logical management of variation allows the architect to avoid repetitive solutions and to maintain an equally high level of conceptual rigor across the entire project, to engage with that complexity rather than reducing it. An additional aspect is the ability to quickly and accurately produce quantitative information during the design process which can be used to strengthen the argument or inform the decision-making process.\u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Interpret the morphogenetic parameters and other issues of relevance to the project using drawings and diagrams.Critique a specific project brief and a specific context and respond with a meaningful data-driven design concept.Translate a data-driven design concept into meaningful architectural propositions at appropriate scales and levels of granularity.Produce coherent architectural representations and models at sufficient levels of detail.Formulate the morphogenetic narrative and create convincing arguments for the design propositions.Develop convincing final diagrams, drawings, renderings, simulations, physical and digital models. Transversal skills Design and present a poster.Collect data.Make an oral presentation. Expected student activities ' Architectural projects will be developed individually (or exceptionally in groups of 2). ' Some group work may occur in the analysis stages.\u00a0 \u00a0 Assessment methods Projects will be reviewed and assessed based on: (1) their conceptual strength and innovation, (2) the coherence and resolution of their architectural translation, (3) their representative clarity and expressive power, and (4) the persuasiveness of their communication, both orally, and through the physical and digital artifacts.\u00a0 \u00a0 Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "CS-486", "name": "Human computer interaction", "description": "User experience design is concerned with the usability and enjoyability of software products. This course teaches you the basic methods of user experience design (UX), and introduces you to design thinking. Content Basic concepts of human-computer interaction Definition of user experience design: what are its aims and goals Introduction to the goal-directed design method How to interview users How to identify design requirements after interviewing users How to design using context scenario and storyboarding methods How to perform usability testing Basic concepts from cognitive science How users interact with computers How users learn and how they memorize Human Perceptual Systems Visual Interafce Design \u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Open to students enrolled in the Master and PhD programs in IC. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Interview users and elicit their needs using the goal-directed design methodDesign interfaces and intearctionsProject management: set objectives and device a plan to achieve themGroup work skills: discuss and identify roles, and assume those roles including leadershipCommunication: writing and argumentation skills Teaching methods Lectures, written assignments, one design project Expected student activities Reading, case studies, peer discussions Assessment methods Written assignments, group project and project presentation\u00a0 Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "BIO-493", "name": "Scientific project design in integrative neurosciences", "description": "This course will provide a forum in which students engage themselves in learning how to design a scientific project that bridges scales and allows following the causal chain from one scale to the next. Content Unraveling the mysteries of the brain involves exploring it at different scales and with different modalities whether this is in experiment, theory or simulation. While a faithful description at any single scale or modality may be already challenging, the most formidable aspects of this quest is how to do this in an integrative way. \u00a0The students will form one team spending the semester together to design a scientific project demonstrating the bridging of scales and amenable to causal argumentation. The project can describe the design of an experimental, a modeling or a combined study. The primary goal of this course is to stimulate independent student thinking and to enhance problem solving capabilities. In addition, the course provides an important component of working together with other students as a team. Learning to organize team work and to recognize strengths of team members is therefore also a critical component of the project success. \u00a0 Keywords Innovation, group work, scientific study design in neuroscience, bridging scales. Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Having read scientific papers and analyzed their methods Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze a scientific study setup and recognize flaws.Discuss multiple aspects of the selected neuroscience study in a team.Characterize elements of a scientific study capable of bridging scales.Elaborate a causal chain of argumentation within an experimental setup Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingMake an oral presentation.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Students will work together in groups to solve the selected challenge. Regular meetings with advisors will be scheduled as appropriate. Two advisors from different fields will be elucidating experimental and modeling approaches to bridging scales. Expected student activities Students need to develop an idea that they will explore in more detail through literature searches and other sources of information. Advisors will provide guidance, whilst giving the students maximal intellectual freedom. The students should write a ~30 page report. The students should give a ~30 minute oral presentation."}
{"courseId": "MSE-486", "name": "Organic electronic materials - synthesis, applications, properties", "description": "This course will introduce students to the structural requirements of charge transport in organic materials as well as synthetic methods for their preparation. Content Introduction, Motivation, and Overview Research in Materials Related to Energy Conversion and Storage Basics of Supramolecular Chemistry Charge Transport in Organic Molecules and Materials Chemical Bonding in Organic Molecules Electron Delocalization in Molecules with pi-Conjugated Systems Charge Generation and Transport in Molecules and Bulk Materials Synthesis and Properties of Organic Electronic Materials General Strategies Oligo(phenylene)s and Poly(phenylene)s Oligo(thiophene)s and Poly(thiophene)s Poly(phenylene vinylene)s Other Low Molecular Weight Organic Semiconductors Fabrication and Characterization of Organic Electronic Devices Organic Field-Effect Transistors (OFET) Organic Light-Emitting Diodes (OLED) Organic Solar Cells (OSC) Keywords aromaticity, pi-conjugation, conjugated electron systems, electron delocalization, charge carrier generation and transport, solitons, polarons, bipolarons, polymer and oligomer semiconductors, organic field-effect transistors, organic light-emitting diodes, organic solar cells Learning Prerequisites Required courses MSE 211 Organic and macromolecular chemistry (for materials science students) or similar basic organic chemistry courses (students from other disciplines) Recommended courses Organic semiconductors (Frank N\u00fcesch), in parallel MSE 488\u00a0Supramolecular aspects of polymer materials Important concepts to start the course notion of the covalent bond notion of chemical structures notion of basic physics (atoms, electrons, electromagnetic radiation) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe electronic structure of aromatic compounds, electron delocalisationDraw molecular orbital diagrams of pi-conjugated systemsDiscriminate charge generation mechanisms and species (solitons, polarons, bipolarons)Apply synthesis methods appropriate for pi-conjugated moleculesCategorize different classes of organic electronic materialsElaborate functioning of organic solar cells, field-effect transistors, light-emmitting diodes Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods ex cathedra, slides and blackboard, interactive exercises Expected student activities attendance to lectures active participation in lectures (questions, feedback) solving the exercise sheets (at home) active participation in exercises (demonstrating solutions on blackboard) complementing course work with organic and polymer chemistry textbook (at home) Assessment methods written examination"}
{"courseId": "ENV-548", "name": "Sensor orientation", "description": "Determination of spatial orientation (i.e. position, velocity, attitude) via integration of inertial sensors with satellite positioning. Prerequisite for many applications related to remote sensing, environmental monitoring, mobile mapping, robotics, space exploration, smart-phone navigation, etc. Content Lectures Concept and principles. Inertial and other reference frames. Gyroscope and accelerometer technology. Attitude parameterization and modeling. Strapdown mechanization. Initial alignment. Random processes and noise models. Bayes and Kalman Filters. External aiding INS/GNSS integration and reliability. Application to mobile mapping and remote sensing\u00a0Labs Estimating and characterizing sensor errors in synthetic and real data (practical lab / real instruments) Determining trajectory from ideal and realistic inertial data Witnessing inertial physics (practical lab / real instruments) Performing Kalman Filtering with different motion models Setting up loosely coupled INS/GNSS integration \u00a0 Keywords Inertial sensors, platform orientation, sensor integration, Kalman Filtering, estimation, INS/GNSS, navigation Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Advanced satellite positioning, statistics, adjustment of observations Important concepts to start the course basic signal processing, random processes, programmation in Matlab Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manipulate precise as well as low-cost inertial instruments.Compute initial orientation from a real data.Integrate inertial signals via simulations.Predict orientation performance via covariance propagation.Construct a model for a gyroscope or accelerometer.Develop dynamic models for a particular scenario.Implement Kalman Filter. Transversal skills Collect data.Make an oral presentation.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods Ex cathedra, exercises (part. in computer room), demonstrations Expected student activities Active participation in the course and lab assignments, programmation of algoritms and self-control (debugging), study and presentation of one inertial-sensor technology . Assessment methods Continuous control, 3 tests Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "ENV-540", "name": "Imagery of territory", "description": "This course covers optical remote sensing from satellites and airborne platforms. The different systems are presented. The students will acquire skills in image processing and machine learning to extract end-products, such as land cover or risk maps, from the images. Content Courses content: Basic concepts of remote sensing and digital imaging Platforms and sensors Information extraction Image classification Multitemporal processing and change detection Project: Study a real (geospatial or other) problematic using remote sensing and image processing techniques. Keywords Imagery, remote sensing, image processing, signal processing, machine learning, satellites Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe remote sensing systemsDescribe applications of remote sensingSelect appropriately the relevant system for a given applicationPerform image classificationPerform information extractionImplement a processing chain to solve a real problem Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Collect data.Make an oral presentation.Write a scientific or technical report.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods Lessons ex-cath\u00e9dra (2/3) Exercice sessions and group project (1/3) \u00a0 Assessment methods Mid-term written test (60% of the final mark) Project report (40% of the final mark) \u00a0 Supervision Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "BIO-494", "name": "Scientific project design in drug discovery", "description": "The goal of this course is to instruct the student how fundamental scientific knowledge can be applied for drug discovery and development. We will demonstrate these principles with examples, including obesity, diabetes, atherosclerosis and infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis. Content General principles of drug development [target-based versus whole cell-based screens, target identification, target validation, screening, hit to lead optimization, rational drug design, process research (optimization of the chemical synthesis for the pilot plant and factory), efficacy, toxicity / safety, preclinical & clinical development, ,..] Use of animal models and human genetics in drug discovery The business environment [markets, patients/consumers, competitors] Project management [sponsors, stake-holders and their expectations, checkpoints, milestones, execution] Commercialization [business plan, regulatory, product launch, Intellectual property] Pathophysiology and therapeutic strategies for disorders of energy balance\u00a0 and mitochondrial function [fasting-feeding cycles, nutrition, hormonal control of energy homeostasis, obesity, diagnosis, pathogenesis, prevention and treatments] Pathophysiology and therapeutic strategies for cardio-metabolic diseases [type-2 diabetes, atherosclerotic heart disease, lipid homeostasis, chronic inflammation, diagnosis, pathogenesis, prevention and treatment] Pathophysiology and therapeutic strategies for HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis emphasizing the importance of combination therapy and the dangers of drug-drug interactions. Case studies Keywords Drug discovery Drug development Drug targets Screening ADME/T Drug-drug interactions Pharmacology Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bachelor in Life Sciences, Physical Sciences, Pharmacology or equivalent Recommended courses Infection biology Physiology Chemistry Biochemistry Pharmacology Important concepts to start the course History of chemotherapy and the design of randomised clinical trials. Nature of drug targets and the mechanisms of action of some commonly used drugs and antibiotics.\u00a0 Hit-finding, hit-to-lead and lead optimisation towards a candidate drug. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain concept of combination therapyAssess / Evaluate the effect of comorbiditiesEstimate pharmacological properties using in vitro ADME/TExplore possible drug-drug interactionsPropose new combination theraies to treat comorbiditiesDiscuss current drugs and their effectsEstimate the economic impactReport potential societal value Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Manage priorities.Make an oral presentation.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art. Teaching methods After ex-cathedra introduction sessions, detailing the pathophysiology of some common metabolic diseases and selected infectious diseases, the teaching proceeds with weekly sessions of office hours and group work in close collaboration with the teachers. Scientific publications will be analyzed by individual students and presented to the group. Expected student activities Database searches Literature reviews Analysis of scientific articles Presentation of salient points Discussion of findings in a more general context Assessment methods Continual assessment during the semester. Written Project. Oral defense of the project and questions on course work. \u00a0 Resources Bibliography Corey E.J., Czako B., Kurti L. Molecules and Medicines (2007) Kenakin T.P. A pharmacology primer, theory, applications and methods (Third Edition, 2009) Kasper D.L, Braunwald, E., Fauci A.S., Hauser S.L., Longo D.L. Jameson, J.L. Harrison,s Principles of Internal Medicine (17th Edition, 2008) Brunton L.L., et al. Goodman & Gilman,s: The pharmacological basis of therapeutics (12th Edition, 2011) Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Molecules and Medicines / CoreyGoodman & Gilman's: The pharmacological basis of therapeutics / BruntonHarrison's Principles of Internal Medicine / KasperA pharmacology primer, theory, applications and methods / Kenakin"}
{"courseId": "BIO-691", "name": "Brain Bioenergetics: from behavior to pathology", "description": "This course will provide knowledge about the emerging issues on the role of brain bioenergetics for brain function, behavior and psycho- and neuro-pathologies. It will also address recent advances and novel methodologies from the fields of brain, behavior and metabolism, and their interplay. Content The goal of the course is to increase awareness and knowledge of the diverse aspects of research in Brain Bioenergetics, which is currently developing as an important field in Neuroscience. Students will be introduced, by experts in the field, to fundamental concepts and recent findings related to brain bioenergetics with a particular emphasis to brain function and dysfunction. During this course, the students will aquire a broad knowledge about the implication of mitochondria in normal brain as well as in a variety of behavioural and pathological processes, such as Parkinson's disease, anxiety disorders, addiction and depression. Other focuses will be the recent advances related to epigenetic mechanisms and energy metabolism in neurons and glia. Students will also be exposed to novel approaches and methodologies in both human and animal systems. Students will be evaluated by an assignment related to recommended articles and speakers lectures. Mitonuclear protein balance in health and disease [Johan Auwerx, EPFL, CH ] Mitochondrial dysfunction in midbrain dopamine neurons and the relevance for Parkinson's disease [Nils-G\u00f6ran Larson, Max Planck Institute for Biology of Ageing, DE] Role of mitochondrial fusion proteins on metabolic homeostasis and energy \u00a0expenditure [Antonio Zorzano, IRB Barcelona, Universitat de Barcelona and CIBERDEM, ES] Mitochondrial function links anxiety with dysfunctions in social behaviors [Carmen Sandi, EPFL, CH] Suboptimal mitochondrial function in the pathobiology of depression [Tamas Kozicz, Radboud UMC, Nijmegen, NL and Tulane University, New Orleans, USA] Genetic dissection of the neuroendocrine and behavioral responses to stressful challenges [Alon Chen, Max Planck Inst Psychiatry, DE and, Weizmann Institute, IL] Effect of early life stress on metabolic programming [Laia Morato Fornaguera, EPFL, CH] Epigenetic mechanisms of stress in the hippocampus: central role of bioenergetics [Bruce McEwen, The Rockefeller University, New York, USA] Epigenetics in Alzheimer's disease [Jose V. Sanchez Mut, EPFL, CH] Redox dysregulation in schizophrenia: implication of high energy metabolism nerve cells [Kim Do, Lausanne University Hospital, CH] From protein folding at the endoplasmic reticulum to behavior [Claudio Hetz, University of Chile, CL, and Harvard School of Public Health, USA] Role of neuron-glia metabolic coupling in plasticity and neuroprotection [Pierre Magistretti, KAUST, SA and EPFL, CH] Imbalanced mitochondrial dynamics in cocaine abuse [Mary Kay Lobo, University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, USA] Mitochondrial CB1 receptors in the brain [Giovanni Marsicano, INSERM, and University of Bordeaux, France] Bioenergetics of fast neuronal network oscillations [Oliver Kann, University of Heidelberg, DE] The course will take place during 1.5 days. First day from 8:50 to 17:40, with poster session from 12:20 to 13:45. Second day from 8:50 to 13:00. \u00a0 Keywords Bioenergetics, brain function and dysfunction, mitochondria, neuropathology, stress, addiction, behavior, mitofusin, Endoplasmic Reticulum, brain oscillations Learning Prerequisites Required courses No requirement Recommended courses No requirement"}
{"courseId": "CS-101", "name": "Advanced information, computation, communication I", "description": "Discrete mathematics is a discipline with applications to almost all areas of study. It provides a set of indispensable tools to computer science in particular. This course introduces students to topics as diverse as mathematical reasoning, combinatorics, discrete structures & algorithmic thinking. Content I. Mathematical reasoning: propositional logic, propositional functions, quantifiers, rules of inference.II. Sets and counting: cardinalities, inclusion/exclusion principle, sequences and summations.III. Algorithms and complexity: basic algorithms, computational complexity, big-O notation.IV. Basic number theory: modular arithmetic, integer division, prime numbers, hash functions, pseudorandom numbergeneration; applications.V. Induction and recursion: mathematical induction, recursive definitions and algorithms.VI. Basic combinatorial analysis: permutations, binomial theorem, Catalan numbers, basic generating functions.VII. Basic probability: events, independence, random variables, Bayes' theorem.VIII. Structure of sets: relations, equivalence relations, power set, posets.IX. Elementary graph theory: graphs, Euler and Hamilton paths, Dijkstra's algorithm, spanning trees. Keywords Propositional logic, counting, complexity, big-O, number representations, sets, matrices, modular arithmetic, induction, basic probabilities, Bayes theorem, combinatorial analysis, recurrences, generating functions, countability, graph theory. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Recognize if there is a mistake in a (simple) proofApply general problem-solving techniquesRecognize the mathematical structures present in applicationsApply simple recursion and use it to design recursive algorithmsApply the tools studied in class to solve problemsDemonstrate familiarity with mathematical reasoningSolve linear recurrences and use generating functionsArgue about (un)countabilityFormulate complete, clear mathematical proofs Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking Teaching methods Ex cathedra (blackboard) lectures Expected student activities Studying the book, test your understanding by making the exercises, ask questions Assessment methods Midterm exam (30%) and final exam (70%), both mostly (and possibly exclusively) multiple choice Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Others A list of students assistants and their contact data will be made available on the moodle page for this course, along with an assignment of each registered student to one of the student assistants. If you have a question, first contact the student assistant assigned to you. If that does not help, contact one of the teaching assistants (Dusan Kostic and Benjamin Wesolowski). Furthermore, you are always welcome to stop by at my office (INJ330, no office hours, I'm available when I'm there) for any type of question related to this course or your study at EPFL. Never hesitate to ask questions before, during or after the lectures! \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "EE-442", "name": "Wireless receivers: algorithms and architectures", "description": "The students will learn about the basic principles of wireless communication systems, including transmission and modulation schemes as well as the basic components and algorithms of a wireless receiver. They develop an understanding for the wireless channel and the performance and limitations. Content Fundamentals Modulation, baseband and passband signals, vector-space representation, matched filtering, maximum-likelihood estimation, performance metrics Synchronized receiver Carrier frequency and sampling frequency offset, time- and frequency synchronization, interpolation, equalization, diversity receiver The wireless channel Basic AWGN channel, signal propagation and attenuation, fading channels, multipath propagation, Doppler shift Wideband modulation Multicarrier communication, orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM), training based channel estimation and equalization for OFDM,\u00a0synchronization, tracking, some OFDM based communication standards Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Telecommunication systems Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Construct a basic wireless transmitterExplain the performance limitations of a wireless systemDerive basic optimum receiver structuresDevelop a simulation model of a wireless systemDevelop and simulate OFDM communication systems Teaching methods Ex cathedra with computer exercises/labs Assessment methods Continuous control with presentation of a final project Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "CH-727", "name": "Biomimetic membrane systems and their applications", "description": "The course aims at showing how diverse model membrane systems are or could be applied in technology and in biology. Content 1. Introduction to the structure and functions of cell membranes. Presentation of various biomimetic membrane systems.2. Supported lipid bilayers (on hard, soft, porous, planar, curved, patterned substrates) and their interactions with cells. Applications in biosensors and in biocompatible materials. 3. Lipid vesicles (free-standing, tethered to a surface, or arranged in a network). Applications in drug delivery systems and in nanocontainers.4. More exotic forms: lipid nanotubes, nanodisks and bicelles.5. Steps towards a minimal cell: giant unilamellar vesicles supplemented with individual functions provided by the addition of cytoplasm, cytoskeleton, genome, and energy. Applications in biotechnology. Cell membranes carry out many vital functions and have evolved to highly complex mixtures of lipids and proteins. Biomimetic membrane systems based on the essential lipid bilayer with embedded proteins provide a way to select (and to mimic) some structural or functional features of the cell membrane. Complex functions such as activation of immune cells, membrane fusion, cell adhesion and division have been studied with simpler and more controlled model membrane systems. The course aims at showing how diverse model membrane systems are or could be applied in technology and in biology.The active participation of the students will be required for a multifaceted approach of a selected application. Note Next session Spring semester 2017 Keywords Model membrane systems, supported lipid bilayers, vesicles, ion channel biosensors, drug delivery, minimal cells"}
{"courseId": "MATH-710", "name": "Data Analysis for Science and Engineering", "description": "An overview course intended for scientists and engineers who need to use statistical methods as part of their research, who have already attended a course at the second-year EPFL undergraduate level, and need revision and deepening of their knowledge at a more conceptual level. Content This four-credit course is intended for PhD students who need to use statistical ideas and data analysis as part of their research. It is assumed that they have already attended a first course in probability and statistics, at the level of an EPFL second-year course for engineers, and need a broader coverage at a more conceptual level. The course structure is akin to Diggle and Chetwynd (2011), but with different emphases and choices of material. The course will consist of two classroom hours per week over one semester, plus assigned reading, plus exercises using the statistical package R. Students are expected to submit a problem (which might be a dataset) from their research before the course begins, so that the contents can be tailored to the problems proposed, and the course assessment will be based on a report and presentation in which ideas from the course are applied to the problem. \u00a0 1. Introduction: \u00a0 Introduction, aims of the course. Statistics and the scientific method. Examples. ' Presentation of selected problems by students. \u00a0 2. Looking at data: \u00a0' Exploratory data analysis' Elements of graphical data analysis \u00a0 3. Probability revision: Flipped classroom on basic probability (probability distribution, random variates, conditional distributions, limit theorems), based on \u00a0 assigned reading. \u00a0 4. Probability models 1:' Multivariate distributions ' Gaussian processes \u00a0 5. Probability models 2:' Poisson process' Markov processes \u00a0 6. Statistics revision: Flipped classroom on basic statistics (point and interval estimation, testing, likelihood), based on assigned reading. \u00a0 7. Experimental design 1: Basic ideas: randomisation, replication, blocking Simple comparative experiments \u00a0 8. Experimental design 2: More complex designs Clinical trials \u00a0 9. Experimental design 3:' Significance, power. Multiple testing. Observational vs designed studies \u00a0 10. Statistical models 1: Linear regression' Model-checking, Robust regression \u00a0 11. Statistical models 2:' Model selection (AIC, BIC, cross-validation), Spline regression Logistic regression, Log-linear models \u00a0 12. Statistical models 3: Generalised additive models, High-dimensional regression (lasso) Mixed models \u00a0 13. Statistical models 4: (Possible topics, to be determined by needs of participants) Reliability Time failure data' \u00a0 14. Statistical models 5: (Possible topics, to be determined by needs of participants) Time series Time series \u00a0 References Diggle, P. J. and Chetwynd, A. G. (2011) Statistics and Scientific Method. Oxford University Press. Keywords Data analysis; statistical methods, scientific method Learning Prerequisites Required courses second-year course in probability/statistics for engineers and/or scientists, reasonable mathematical ability"}
{"courseId": "BIO-477", "name": "Infection biology", "description": "Infectious diseases (ID) are still a major problem to human health. But how do pathogens make us sick? How do they evolve and spread? The discovery and use of antibiotics and vaccination has changed the outcome of some IDs. But resistance mechanisms have evolved and are of major concern. Content Evolution of pathogens and horizontal gene transfer Bacterial infections (intra vs. extracellular bacteria) Identification of virulence factors Diarrheal diseases Respiratory diseases Bacterial communities and gut microbiota Antimicrobials Viral infections Eukaryotic pathogens (Plasmodium, Trypanosome, Worms) Pathogenic fungi Vaccination strategies Bioethics Keywords Infection Biology; bacterial pathogens; viruses; eukaryotic pathogens; antibiotics and resistance mechanisms; virulence factors; global impact of infectious diseases. Learning Prerequisites Required courses An Introductory Microbiology\u00a0course is a prerequisite. Exchange students will only be\u00a0accepted after presentation of a certificate indicating that they have followed a basic microbiology course. \u00a0 Recommended courses Immunology and basic cell biology. Important concepts to start the course Basic microbiology; knowledge of prokaryotic specialities (ribosomes, cell wall etc).\u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Judge the impact of infectious diseases on human healthAssess / Evaluate the need for new therapeutics to fight infectious diseasesList and explain current vaccination regimesDescribe molecular mechanisms that underly pathogenicityAnalyze and present publications on Infection Biology Transversal skills Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Summarize an article or a technical report.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Ex cathedra discussion of relevant publications exercises Expected student activities Participating students are expected to engage in this course by attending lectures, reading additional material, understanding and presenting recent state-of-the-art publications, and completing exercises.\u00a0 Assessment methods Written exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No Others Moodle webpage (EPFL-SV-Master Infection Biology; BIO-477)"}
{"courseId": "COM-510", "name": "Advanced digital communications", "description": "Digital communication systems are basic workhorses behind the information age. Examples include high-speed wired and wireless networks, but also CDs, hard drives, and flash memory. This class presents the tools and concepts behind present and emerging systems, including OFDM, GSM, 3G, and 4G/LTE. Content Digital communication systems are basic workhorses behind the information age. Examples include high-speed wired and wireless networks, but also storage technologies such as CDs, hard drives, and flash memory. Yet another example is the Global Positioning System (GPS), which is also based on digital communications. This course is an introduction to the foundational principles underlying the design and analysis of digital communication systems. Principled approaches and mathematical sophistication have had an exceptionally profound impact on the development of these systems. The class will provide the student with a command of the tools and concepts behind present and emerging systems, including OFDM, GSM, 3G, 4G/LTE, and more. Foundations of Signalling, Detection and Estimation (3 weeks) Wired Communication: OFDM, the foundations behind ADSL and beyond (3 weeks) Wireless Communication: Diversity and the foundations behind LTE/4G Wireless and emerging wireless technologies, including multi-user communication (4 weeks) Coding Techniques (3 weeks) Keywords Wireless, OFDM, ADSL, Fading, Diversity, Coding, Modulation, Multi-user communication, GSM, 3G, 4G, LTE Learning Prerequisites Required courses \"Principles of Digital Communications\" Recommended courses \"Circuits and Systems\" / \"Signals and Systems\" (in particular, Fourier and Z-transforms). \"Linear Algebra\" (concepts of matrices, vectors, eigenvalues) Important concepts to start the course Basic familiarity with Fourier transforms, vectors, matrices and eigenvalues, will be an advantage in this class. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate an ADC (advanced digital communication) system (data rate, spectral bandwidth, energy requirements, error probability, implementation complexity)Design an ADC system (data rate, spectral bandwidth, energy requirements, error probability, implementation complexity)Formalize an ADC system (data rate, spectral bandwidth, energy requirements, error probability, implementation complexity)Model physical properties of wired and wireless communication channels Teaching methods Lectures (using blackboard and projector), 4h per week Exercise session, 2h per week Expected student activities There will be weekly homework assignments, with the following emphasis: Paper-pencil studies of communication system design (70%) Matlab (or other numerical tools) to evaluate performance (30%) Assessment methods Homework / Project Midterm Exam Final Exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "AR-522", "name": "Difficult Double Double Histories", "description": "This course starts where 'The Difficult Double' ended. If previous lectures engaged in architectural culture from a very personal perspective, these lectures address a more ambitious scope. Is it possible to develop an argument for a certain formalism by introducing the notion of 'the classical'? Content The first cycle of Trouble with Classicists lectures will include a number of architects, artists and theoreticians, with an ambition to offer a possible interpretation of the meaning and future of 'the classic'. By inviting lecturers with different positions, ranging from architects including I\u00f1aki Abalos, Hans Kollhoff and Leon Krier to artists Matt Mullican and Simon Starling, the idea is to challenge the typical significance of this term. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze the projects presented during the lectures in the context of the general theme.Consider the relevance of the overall discourse in developing their design theories and skills. Teaching methods Series of lectures by selected international architects, artists and theoreticians and active discussions and readings with students moderated by the professor and assistants. Assessment methods Students are asked to attend the lectures and actively participate in the debate. During the semester they will also need to read a given selection of texts, in order to develop a broader scope of knowledge. The exam at the end of the semester will be an oral discussion between a small group of students and the professor / assistants. Students are expected to demonstrate a critical position and original ideas concerning the subject and they will be evaluated on the basis of their arguments, rather than factual memorizing. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "BIO-503", "name": "Lab immersion III", "description": "The student will engage in a laboratory-based project in the field of molecular medicine, neuroscience or bioengineering. Student projects will emphasize acquisition of practical skills in experimentation and data analysis. Content A typical project will involve \"hands-on\" wetlab experimentation and data analysis, althoughtheoretical and computationally-oriented projects are also possible. The projects are available on the web sites of SV laboratories or discussed directly with a potential head of lab. The students are confronted with the realization of a laboratory-based project integrating specific aspects of molecular medicine or neuroscience.This project will allow them to apply, to concrete problems, skills of domain and transversal skills acquired during their studies. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bachelor in Life Sciences and Technology Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manage an individual research projectDevelop expertise in a specific area of researchImplement appropriate technologies to address the scientific or engineering problem being studiedConduct experiments appropriate the specific problem being studiedAssess / Evaluate data obtained in wetlab and computational experimentsInterpret obtained in wetlab and computational experimentsOptimize experimental protocols and data presentationPlan experiments to test hypotheses based on obtained results Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingDemonstrate a capacity for creativity.Write a scientific or technical report. Expected student activities Students will focus on hands-on experimentation, which may be wetlab-based or computer-based, depending on the project. Students will read and discuss assigned papers from the originalscientific literature. As part of the evaluation process, students may be required to submit a written report or to give an oral presentation that summarizes and interprets their results. 16h/semaine de pr\u00e9sence en laboratoire pendant 14 semaines ou 5 semaines \u00e0 100% (42h/semaine). Peut \u00eatre pris durant les vacances d'\u00e9t\u00e9 ou au semestre d'automne Assessment methods Continuous control The mode of evaluation must be clearly defined and agreed between the student and the project mentor in advance.Typically the mode of evaluation will include a written report and /or an oral presentation prepared and delivered by the student. Supervision Others Typically, the student will be matched with a secondary mentor\u00a0(this will usually be a senior PhD student or a Postdoctoral Fellow)\u00a0\u00a0who will take responsibility for the day-to-day supervision and\u00a0training of the student."}
{"courseId": "BIO-622", "name": "Practical - Lingner Lab", "description": "Telomere biology. The students will obtain theoretical and practical insight into telomere biology and the roles of telomeres during cellular senescence and for genome stability. Content A general theoretical introduction will be given in the beginning of the course. In the laboratory, human cells will be used as model systems. Biochemical, molecular biological and cell biological assays will be performed. Specifically, telomerase activity will be measured in cellular extracts, the affinity of an RNA-protein interaction will be determined in band-shift assays and telomere integrity will be assessed by immunofluorescence. Note Note that while the course is open to all first year EPFL doctoral students, priority will be given to EDMS students, given that they are mandated to take three of EDMS practical modules. Note also that doctoral students from the Lingner laboratory cannot take this course. Access is limited to 4 students. Keywords Telomeres, telomerase, reverse transcriptase, cellular senescence, genome stability Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Background reading: Nandakumar, J and Cech, TR: Finding the end: recruitment of telomerase to telomeres. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 2013 Feb; 14(2):69-82"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-447", "name": "Reactor Technology", "description": "To comprehend (particularly in the context of light water reactors) the basic heat removal phenomena in a reactor core, identify the technological limits for heat generation from the viewpoints of fuel, cladding and coolant, and be introduced to optimization principles in reactor thermal design. Content Fuel rod, LWR fuel elements Temperature field in fuel rod Reactor core, design Flux and heat source distribution, cooling channel Single-phase convective heat transfer, axial temperature profiles Boiling crisis and DNB ratio Pressurized water reactors, design Primary circuit design Steam generator heat transfer, steam generator types Boiling water reactors Reactor design LWR power plant technology Other types of reactors (overview) Generation IV systems\u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate performance of reactor typesSystematize reactor system componentsFormulate safety requirements for reactor systems Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Collect data. Teaching methods Lectures, numerical exercises"}
{"courseId": "FIN-503", "name": "Advanced derivatives", "description": "The course covers a wide range of advanced topics in derivatives pricing Content Models with stochastic volatility and jumps, pricing of vanilla options by Fourier inversion techniques, numerical methods including pricing of American-style options by simulation and finite difference, exotic derivatives (such as barrier options and cliquets), volatility derivatives (such as variance swaps, volatility swaps, and options on volatility), and term structure modeling with unspanned stochastic volatility. Keywords Derivatives, stochastic volatility, jumps, numerical methods Learning Prerequisites Required courses Derivatives Introduction to finance Investments Stochastic calculus I Stochastic calculus II Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe properties of asset returns and implied volatility surfacesCompare and contrast different methods for modeling implied volatility surfaces including stochastic volatility, local volatility, and jumpsDerive the characteristic function of log stock prices in settings with stochastic volatility and jumps; discuss and implement the pricing of European put and call options by Fourier inversion techniquesImplement an implied binomial tree and explain the formula for local volatilityDesign efficient simulation schemes for pricing options with path-dependent payoffs and early exercise featuresImplement simple finite difference schemesExplain the decomposition of structured products into their underlying option components; understand the model risk associated with pricing and hedging exotic derivatives and structured productsDemonstrate the model-independent pricing of variance swaps; explain empirical results about volatility risk premiumsExamine the properties of term structure models with unspanned stochastic volatility (USV) and explain the concept of USV in interest rate and commodity markets Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner. Teaching methods Lectures and exercises Assessment methods 40% combined weight on assignments given during the course 60% final exam - closed-book Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "ENV-546", "name": "Geocomputation", "description": "Analysis of geo-referenced information requires the use of sophisticated processing methods. This course illustrates the implementation of algorithms able to relate the location of an object with his other attributes in a context of high performance computing. Content The purpose of the course of lectures and practicals in geocomputation is to provide an incentive for students to increase their knowledge of computer science to look at and solve complex spatial problems. Theoretical lectures will be given to provide a global background in geocomputation and to present the different computational approaches to be used during the practicals. Main topics addressed will be the study of the cumulative function M, the parallel processing of numerous association models (logistic and geographically weighted regression), street network analysis in urban areas. We will use datasets related to different thematics like biodiversity assessment, urban health data, or the measure of the concentration of retail and industrial activities in urban areas. These different datasets will be analyzed in the context of an introduction to high performance computing. Keywords geocomputation, processing, HPC, cluster, logistic regression, network analysis, postgres, postgis, QGIS, Matlab, SQL, Torque, Linux Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Information, Calcul, Communication (ICC); Geographic Information Systems (GIS) \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course Recommended but not compulsory prior programming knowledge or strong interest (e.g. Matlab, C, Javascript, VB, PHP, Java), GIS skills (Manifold, ArcGIS, MapInfo, Quantum GIS, Idrisi, etc.) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Integrate adequate geospatial data sets for the processing of association modelsStructure ideas and arguments in the context of the writing of short scientific papersInvestigate the variation of attributes according to the change of the location of a set of spatial unitsPerform processing of association models in a simple computer cluster infrastructureElaborate a research project based on the characteristics of a georeferenced data set availableFormulate 1 or 2 hypotheses to be validated in the context of a research projectReport on the main results obtained in the context of a research projectInterpret the main results obtained based on the spatial distribution of the objects under investigation Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Make an oral presentation.Write a scientific or technical report.Summarize an article or a technical report.Negotiate effectively within the group. Teaching methods Lectures ex cathedra, practical works, project Expected student activities Execution of tasks prepared in the context of lab exercises; Short paper writing in collaboration with a colleague and in interaction with the teacher; project elaboration in collaboration with a colleague Assessment methods Continuous controls. 4 practical works during the semester 50 %. Written project 25 %. Oral defence of the project 25 %. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "BIO-802", "name": "Summer School on Neurophysiology for Neural and Biomedical Engineering (2016)", "description": "The aim of the summer school is to bring fundamental knowledge of the main experimental tools and concepts in neurophysiology to the community of students working in neural engineering, neuroprosthetics or biomedical engineering fields Content These new and promising research fields are a melting pot of skilled researchers from different backgrounds ranging from biology to physics. This unique mixture of skills and personalities is required as these fields are at the interface between neuroscience and engineering. However, the daily rush to success, typical of modern PhDs, especially in the field of Bio'Neural Engineering, does not leave time to dig into the main neuro'scientific concepts and basic experimental tools. Questions like: ' how electromyographic signals are generated at the level of the nervemuscle junction? ' what is the source of Lead Field Potentials in the cortex? ' how this knowledge can be used in the design of better prostheses or robots? would need a proper and diligent investigation. Therefore we believe that a comprehensive course on what these concepts are and how they relate to engineering is of fundamental importance for a better informed use of state'of the art scientific concepts and tools. A summer school of basic science will also provide the time and the opportunity to develop new ideas that the deep knowledge of basic experimental neuroscience can provide to the attendees of the course, and therefore to the next generation of Neural and Biomedical Engineers. Structure of the summer school The summer school will be organized to have plenary speakers, providing the basic talks, and symposia speakers, presenting how basic neuroscience helps in their work. Plenary and symposia speakers will be invited to promote group discussions with students. Confirmed speakers Panel 1. Micro-fabrication of neural interfaces Prof. Massimiliano Di Ventra (UCSF, US) Prof. Thomas Stieglitz (IMTEK, DE) Panel 2. Selective sensorimotor CNS stimulation Prof. Philip Sabes (UCSF, US) Prof. Vivian Mushahwar (UAlberta, CA) Panel 3. Human Brain Prof. John Donoghue (EPFL, CH / Brown, US) Prof. Peter Brown (Oxford, UK) Panel 4. Circuitry dissection Prof. Thomas Knopfel (ICL, UK) Prof. Carl Petersen (EPFL, CH) \u00a0 Other scientific and networking activities Night poster session Students' project development and presentation Networking dinners Note Also listed as EE-802 Keywords neurophysiology electrophysiology neural neuroprosthetics"}
{"courseId": "MATH-641", "name": "Multivariate Extreme Value and Max-Stable Processes", "description": "The course is aimed at doctoral students specializing in extreme value theory. Students should be able to address estimation and diagnostics for multivariate extreme-value models and understand the construction and characterization of max-stable processes. Content Multivariate extreme values: dependence, tail correlation and tail dependence, asymptoti- cally (in)dependent extremes; likelihood inference. Angular measure, nonparametric esti- mation using (hidden) regular variation. Conditional extreme values and the Heffernan' Tawn model. Theory of max stable processes: Theoretical bases, models for max-stable processes, ex- tremal and subextremal functions, hitting scenario. Exact and conditional simulation of max-stable processes."}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-600", "name": "Monthly IBI-EDBB Mini-symposia", "description": "To expose EDBB students to research in Bioengineering through attendance of lecture series given by EDBB students and external speakers. The objectives are to broaden the knowledge of students in the field of Bioengineering and expose them to the diversity of studies in the IBI community. Content This cross-disciplinary, seminar-based course will increase EDBB students' exposure to a broad range of fields of research and reinforce interactions within the Institute of Bioengineering (IBI) at the intersection between the School of Life Sciences and the School of Engineering. The course comprises a series of seminars along the academic year in various fields of Bioengineering given either by EDBB students in the final years of their PhD and external speakers. Seminars will include an introduction of the research field in order to be understandable despite the diversity of covered topics, and will aim to foster general discussions. This course will therefore serve as an extended journal-club involving the large community of EDBB students. Note Held on the first Friday of the month in room SV1717a at 16.15, with 3/4 students presenting their research."}
{"courseId": "ENG-609", "name": "Numerical Methods for Physical Properties Evaluation", "description": "The learning outcome is to learn the numerical methods that are used to evaluate thermophysical properties of pure components and mixtures and there applications for fluid phase changes and separation problems. Content Day 1 :How nanoscale interactions influence the macroscale propertiesConcept of equation of stateIdeal behaviour and residual propertiesCorresponding state principleHow equations of state are designedReview of some equations of state (virial, BWR type, cubic equations)\u00a0Day 2 :Mixture propertiesIdeal mixture and excess propertiesPhase equilibriaApplication of equations of state to mixtures\u00a0Day 3 :Excess properties for strongly nonideal mixturesExcess Gibbs free energy models : Scatchard-Hildebrand Wilson NRTL UNIQUACCalculation of phase equilibria for strongly nonideal mixtures at moderate pressureParameter estimation in phase equilibrium modelsPredictive method (UNIFAC, UNIQUAC)\u00a0Day 4 :Modelling strongly nonideal mixtures at high pressureHuron-Vidal mixing rules, MHV1, MHV2Coupling phase equililibria with chemical reaction : electrolyte modelsModelling separation processes Flash separation Batch distillation Continuous distillation Keywords Thermodynamic methods, physical properties of fluids and mixtures"}
{"courseId": "MATH-633", "name": "High Dimensional Approximation for PDEs with random parameters", "description": "The course focuses on mathematical models based on PDEs with random parameters, and presents numerical techniques for uncertainty propagation such as first/second order sensitivity analysis, Monte Carlo, Quasi Monte Carlo, Multi Level Monte Carlo, polynomial chaos expansions Content Course description: \u00a0 Introduction and motivating examples; Elliptic, parabolic and hyperbolic equations with random coefficients. Random fields, Karhunen-Lo\u00e8ve expansion; Uncertainty quantification by local sensitivity analysis; Monte Carlo, Quasi Monte Carlo, Multi Level Monte Carlo methods; Polynomial chaos expansion; high dimensional approximation results; Polynomial regression and sparse grids interpolation; \u00a0 Content: When building a mathematical model to describe the behavior of a physical system, one has often to face a certain level of uncertainty in the proper characterization of the model parameters and input data. Examples appear in the description of flows in porous media, behavior of living tissues, combustion problems, deformation of composite materials, meteorology and atmospheric models, etc.\u00a0 The increasing computer power and the need for reliable predictions have pushed researchers to include uncertainty models, often in a probabilistic setting, for the input parameters of otherwise deterministic mathematical models. 'In this PhD course we focus on mathematical models mostly based on Partial Differential Equations with random input parameters (coefficients, forcing terms, boundary conditions, shape of the physical domain, etc.), and present and analyze the most used numerical techniques for propagating the input random data onto the solution of the problem, such as first/second order sensitivity analysis, Monte Carlo, Quasi Monte Carlo, Multi Level Monte Carlo, polynomial chaos expansions, ... Particular attention is devoted to the case of a large (even infinite) number of input parameters thus leasing to High Dimensional Approximation problems. Keywords Forward Uncertainty Propagation, Monte Carlo, Multi Level Monte Carlo, Polynomial Chaos, Sparse grids, Sensitivity Analysis, random PDEs."}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-444", "name": "Energy geostructures", "description": "The goal of this course is to introduce students to the technology of energy geostructures. The course covers both theoretical and practical aspects of paramount importance for the analysis and design of energy geostructures. Dedicated illustrative and practical examples are foreseen. Content Energy geostructures: concepts, developments and challenges\u00a0 Energy considerations In-situ testing of energy piles and main observations Thermal laboratory testing and in-situ thermal response testing of energy piles Thermo-mechanical testing of soils and main observations Soil-structure interactions and the behaviour of the soil-concrete interface Design of a single energy pile Design of energy pile groups Extension of Eurocodes to such structures Alternative energy geostructures: energy tunnels and energy walls \u00a0 Keywords Energy geostructures, geothermal energy, renewable energy, energy piles, energy tunnels, energy walls, thermo-mechanical behaviour, structural performance, geotechnical performance, energy performance, analysis, design, Eurocodes, analytical modelling, numerical modelling, in-situ testing, laboratory testing. \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Geotechnical engineering (Ouvrages g\u00e9otechniques).\u00a0 \u00a0 Recommended courses Geomechanics. \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course Interdisciplinary and proactive attitudes of the students are the main prerequisites to follow this course. \u00a0 Teaching methods Ex cathedra discussions, exercises and practical work with the aid of computers. \u00a0 Expected student activities Learning outcomes By the end of the course, the student is expected to be able to: Describe the theoretical fundamentals governing the structural, geotechnical and energy support operations of energy geostructures; Analyse and interpret the thermo-mechanical behaviour of both single and groups of energy piles; Describe the response of soils and concrete-soil interfaces subjected to thermo-mechanical loads and the associated experimental techniques devoted to analyse their behaviour; Describe the thermal response testing technique; Perform the design of both single and groups of energy piles in various design conditions; Describe the main theoretical aspects characterising the analytical and numerical modelling of energy piles and other geostructures; Be acquainted with the main features characterising other energy geostructrues such as energy tunnels and energy walls; \u00a0 Assessment methods The evaluation of the student will be based on the final oral exam (70%) and homework evaluations (30%) \u00a0 Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "EE-516", "name": "Data analysis and model classification", "description": "This course introduces several machine learning techniques for the data analysis and classification in Bioengineering applications. Following an application-oriented approach, each technique is illustrated with examples from fields such as neural engineering, movement analysis and bioinformatics. Content 1 Introduction to Machine learning Supervised vs Unsupervised approach, Training and testing techniques \u00a02 Regression methods Linear methods, Other methods, Statistical models\u00a03 Feature selection Filters, wrappers, Information theory\u00a04 Dimensionality reduction Principal component analysis (PCA); Independent component analysis (ICA), Clustering approaches \u00a05 Temporal pattern recognition / Sequence analysis Hidden Markov Models\u00a06 Case studies - Prosthetics Application specific constraints (e.g. single trial, compliance, time lag), Wearable robots, Neuroprosthetics Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Matlab programming (tutorial provided at the beginning of the course) Teaching methods Lectures, exercises Expected student activities Students will have to carry out weekly exercises and provide a written report. Assessment methods Written exam. Final grade: 2/3 Exam, 1/3 Exercises."}
{"courseId": "ME-410", "name": "Mechanical product design and development", "description": "Study and explore design principles of the different mechatronic components and systems. We will cover in-depth especially on meso-scale actuators, sensors and body construction methods. Content Each group will be responsible for producing a product based on the hands-on tutorials that will cover 1. acutators (Shape memory alloy, penumatic actuators) 2. structures (origami, cable-pulled underactuated system, 3D printed modular blocks) 3. model (SMA actuator, silicone based blocks) each group is evaluated on their prototype and report. Keywords Sensors and Actuators, Smart actuators, Flexures, Compliant mechanisms.\u00a0 Polymer, Design Methodology, pneumatic actuators, origami robots \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course product development will be on a wearable technology. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose the development of, (b) the modeling and simulation of, (c) the analysis of and (d) the choice of solution for an engineering problem in the mechanical engineering domain (product design, manufacturing process and system production) (CP1)Analyze to the design requests and define the specifications (CP3)List the functions of an existing or new product based on the specifications (CP4)Choose the main conceptual design solutions and identify the respective components to fulfill one function, taking into account the performance, technology and price constraints (CP5)Formulate the modeling hypotheses to tackle a problem and choose solution methods and tools considering the available resources (CP6)Choose the models and analysis criteria following the specifications (CP7) - Describe the technology implemented in advanced meso scale systems (actuators and sensors)Apply a concept of a meso scale device into a real device considering the scaling laws and boundary conditions involved Teaching methods lecture, tutorials and group work Expected student activities group project\u00a0 Assessment methods 80% Project (30% presentation 50% report) 20% midterm\u00a0 \u00a0 Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes Others Dr. Gunjan Argawal Mr. Matt Robertson Mr. Amir Firouzeh Mr. Zhenishbek Zhakypov \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-603", "name": "Energy planning: modeling and decision support systems", "description": "Solving the problems of energy planning : demand forecasting, evaluation of supply matrixes, probabilistic evaluation of demand/supply adequacy, multi-criteria assessment of medium and long term energy strategies, risk assessment of energy supply portfolios. Content 1. Introduction to Energy Economics and Modeling1.1 Basic economics: microeconomic, macroeconomic theories1.2 Economic-Environment-Energy Modeling: optimization, simulation, time and space dimensions1.3 Various modeling approaches: Top-down, Bottom-up, Hybrid/Integrated approach1.4 Theory of energy economics: Cost-Benefit analysis, social welfare, marginal cost and investment decision, energy pricing\u00a02. Energy Demand/Supply Adequacy2.1 Energy Demand modeling and forecasting: projection, econometric, techno-economic and hybrid models2.2 Electrical Power generation planning: deterministic, probabilistic models; generation planning in a competitive environment; planning of distributed energy resources 2.3 Comparative assessment of energy strategies: Mono-Criterion, Multi-objective programming, Multi-Criteria Decision Making2.4 Simulation of energy markets: Multi-agent simulation of generation expansion in the markets of electricity, system dynamics\u00a03. Modeling externalities of Energy3.1 Evaluation of environmental externalities3.2 Internalizing external effects in energy planning3.3 Case of Electrical Power Generating System3.4 Discussing the pricing of environmental externalities\u00a04. Energy Risk Management4.1 Price volatility and risk management4.2 Energy derivatives4.3 Value-at-Risk4.4 Portfolio risk analysis and application to electricity supply planning\u00a05. Case studies: Least cost planning of electrical generating system expansion5.1 Electricity demand forecasting5.2 Candidates for expansion and configurations of the system5.3 Modeling the operation of the system5.4 Elaborating expansion strategies5.5 Multi Criteria based comparative assessment of expansion strategies"}
{"courseId": "ENV-721", "name": "Waterborne Pathogens", "description": "The goal of this course is to obtain an overview over waterborne pathogens and the risk they pose. We will not focus on biological virulence mechanisms. Instead, we will discuss the fate of pathogens in the environment, detection, inactivation mechanisms, and microbial risk assessment Content Overview over waterborne diseasesWaterborne virusesWaterborne bacteriaWaterborne protozoaWaterborne helminths Detection methodsIndicator organismsPathogens and global changeTransport and survival in the environmentRisk assessmentMicrobial source trackingDisinfection and other control mechanisms"}
{"courseId": "FIN-606", "name": "Mathematics for Financial Economics", "description": "The course is focused on continuous time models and their use in financial economics. Our objective is to study the tools employed in solving dynamic optimization and valuation problems. We will illustrate each technique with a financial application. Content 1. Basic Probability Theory2. Stochastic Processes in Discrete Time3. Brownian Motion and Stochastic Calculus4. Dynamic Optimization and Optimal Stopping Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Familiarity with basic concepts of analysis and probability. Assessment methods Written exam."}
{"courseId": "BIO-105", "name": "Cellular biology and biochemistry for engineers", "description": "Basic course in biochemistry as well as cellular and molecular biology for non-life science students enrolling at the Master or PhD thesis level from various engineering disciplines. It reviews essential notions necessary for a training in biology-related engineering fields. Content The course gives basic knowledge on various phenoma taking place within a cell, and among cells within tissues and organs. The course gives an integrated view of various molecular mechanisms (rather in the second half of the class). It should therefore allow engineering students involved in future projects touching on biomedical problems to better integrate the constraints of a biological system and to enable them to communicate with specialists in both fields. This course is not available to students who had already taken basic cell biology or biochemistry classes during their Bachelor studies at EPFL or elsewhere. This applies for example to the course BIO-109 \"Introduction to Life Sciences for Information Sciences\". Keywords The course contains chapters on the following subjects: 1.Cells and Organs 2.Chemical components of cells 3.Proteins, Enzymes 4.Energy, Metabolism 5.DNA, Chromosomes, Replication 6.Gene expression 7.Recombinant techniques 8.Membrane and Transport 9.Intracellular trafficking 10.Cytoskeleton 11.Cell division, Mitosis 12.Genetics, Meiosis 13.Cell communication, Signaling 14.Tissue, Tissue regeneration Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bachelor degree in engineering or other non-life science discipline Recommended courses Some basic knowledge in chemistry can help, but not required Important concepts to start the course Curiosity about how biological systems work, willingness to acquire a certain amount of knowledge necessary to understand and discuss the various molecular mechanisms present in cells or related to modern biology \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the basic components and functions found in cellsDraw schemes explaining essential cellular phenomenaExplain which are the important metabolic pathwaysTranslate information from genetic codeVerify statements about specific cellular mechanismsIntegrate knowledge from different cellular mechanisms Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods 2 hours of ex cathedra-type of lecture 2 hours of exercises: the instructor gives out appr. 10 questions out (through Moodle and in the beginning of the session). The questions have different formats, and can in some cases just retrieve the acquired facts, in others have a more integrative problem-based learning approach. Expected student activities - review regularly the presented lectures. - participate actively in the exercise sessions when the questions and problems are discussed altogether Assessment methods - a blank exam is performed around early December (does not give credits or bonus) - a written exam at the winter exam session Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No Forum No Others - the teacher can always be reached through Email or phone to fix a one-to-one discussion about specific subjects - whether assistants will be involved depends on the number of students registered"}
{"courseId": "EE-472", "name": "Smart grids technologies", "description": "Learn the technologies and methodologies used in the context smart electrical grids and be able to deploy/implement/test them in a lab environment. Content Modern monitoring: phasor measurement units technology, synchrophasors extraction processes and time alignement Smart grid communication; reliability, real time and security issues Topology assessment and contingency analysis of power grids Admittance matrix calculus, numerical solution of the load flow problem and state estimation Demand response, real-time and non real-time, forecasting methods applied to renewables and demand Energy management and dispatch plans, the optimal power flow problem Keywords Smart grid, power systems Learning Prerequisites Required courses Electric power systems, power distribution networks, TPC/IP Networking Recommended courses Signal processing, discrete optimization methods, model predictive control, industrial electronics. Important concepts to start the course Understanding of electrical grids and communication networks. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design monitoring and control platforms for smart gridsTest a smart gridImplement a smart gridAnalyze performance of a smart grid Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingManage priorities.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods Ex cathedra, classroom integrated exercises and computer laboratory sessions. Expected student activities Attend lectures and labs Do lab homeworks Attend test sessions with clickers Assessment methods Tests during semester (20%), Written exam (30%) and graded lab reports (50%) Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes Resources Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=14163"}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-351", "name": "Transportation systems engineering", "description": "- Introduce the major elements of transportation systems and create awareness of the broader context - Develop basic skills in applying the fundamentals of the transportation field - Understand the key concepts and physics of the transport phenomena - Connect with real transportation problems Content Transportation Systems and Mobility:Mobility - Activities - Land Use, Classification-Hierarchy , Multimodality-Urban PlanningDemand:Demand analysis, Travel Forecasting (4-step models)Modeling and Operations:Basic assessment tools , Traffic flow modeling, Control and capacity of transport systemsDesign of multimodal systems:Urban Policy, Case Studies, Intro to bus operations Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Estimate how transport users choose route and modeCharacterize the level of service of a transport systemAssess / Evaluate traffic signal performanceModel traffic flow propagationIdentify the most appropriate strategy to alleviate congestion Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles.Respect relevant legal guidelines and ethical codes for the profession.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions. Teaching methods Ex-cathedra with assisted exercises, course group projects Assessment methods Midterm 30% Final Exam\u00a040% Laboratories 30% \u00a0 Resources Bibliography Lecture notes, book chapters and handouts will be distributed throughout the semester, or posted on web."}
{"courseId": "MATH-726(2)", "name": "Working group in Topology II", "description": "The theme of the working group varies from year to year. Examples of recent topics studied include: Galois theory of ring spectra, duality in algebra and topology, topological algebraic geometry and twisted K-theory Content Keywords Topology, homotopy theory, K-theory Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Elementary homotopy theory, undergraduate algebra"}
{"courseId": "COM-512", "name": "Networks out of control", "description": "The goal of this class is to acquire mathematical tools and engineering insight about networks whose structure is random, as well as decentralized processes that take place on these networks. Content Course Introduction, Tree Percolation, Branching Processes Random Graphs 1: Models, Threshold Functions, Appearance of Subgraphs Random Graphs 2: Giant Component and Connectivity Random Graphs 3: Other models: the Random Regular Graph, Small World Networks, Scale-Free Networks. Random Geometric Graphs: Introduction to Percolation Theory. Evolution and Dynamics 1: Epidemics, Network and Source Discovery Evolution and Dynamics 2: Information Cascades Evolution and Dynamics 3: Network Navigation and Price of Anarchy Applications 1: Network Formation Games Applications 2: Homophily, Structural Balance. Keywords Random graphs, percolation theory, social networks, communication networks. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Stochastic models in communication (COM-300), or equivalent. \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course Basic probability and stastistics; Markov chains; basic combinatorics. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze social and communication systemsModel such systems as stochastic modelsCompute key properties of these models Teaching methods Ex cathedra lectures, exercises, mini-project Expected student activities Attending lectures, bi-weekly homeworks, mini-project incl. student presentation at the end of semester, final exam. Assessment methods Homeworks 10% Mini-project 40% Final exam 50%. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MSE-351", "name": "Surface analysis", "description": "The course treats the main surface analysis methods for the characterization of surfaces, interfaces and thin films. It discusses how these methods can be applied to gain specific knowledge about structural, chemical and functional properties of surfaces and thin films. Content Introduction Introduction to electronic states on atoms Photo Electron Spectroscopy and Chemical Analysis (ESCA/XPS) Auger Electron Spectroscopy (AES) Secondary Ion Mass Spectrometry (SIMS) Depth profiling Electron diffraction from surfaces Scanning Tunnelling Microscopy (STM) Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) Quantitative measurements of surface properties with AFM Keywords electronic states on atoms, angular momentum, spin, particle wavelength, photo\u00e9lectrons, energy analyzers, chemical composition, interatomic forces like van der Waal's, surface topography, image of magnetic and piezoelectric responses Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the main features of surface analysisDifferentiate advantages and disadvantagesChoose the appropriate methodes Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback. Teaching methods ex-cathedra and exercises Expected student activities learn, look up, make exercises Assessment methods written exam"}
{"courseId": "ME-475", "name": "Multi-body simulation", "description": "The objective of this course is to introduce to the student the basic computer-aided concepts, models, algorithms and methods for the kinematic and dynamic analysis of multi-body systems, specifically designed for mobility. Content This course reviews and reinforces the student's understanding of kinematics and dynamics of multibody systems. We are going to explore the mechanical machinery that generates motion in biological and engineered systems, from the tiniest microorganisms to airplanes. The emphasis will be on design rules, scaling laws, constitutive equations, computational modeling, and numerical analysis.\u00a0 Keywords Constrained multi-body simulation, principles of locomotion, multiphysics, design of machinery, bioinspired engineering Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Rigid Body Kinematics and Dynamics Numerical Analysis Basic programming skills in MATLAB Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Apply the concepts of rigid and deformable body mechanics and of continuum mechanics to model and analytically solve problems of statics, structural stress analysis or simple mechanisms, S1Apply the principle of statics and structural mechanics to analyse and design assemblies of simple mechanical elements in the framework of statics, buckling, S2Be able to compare the range of validity of different constitutive laws, B7Define, describe and apply the basic flow equations, such as the Navier-Stokes equations, AH17 Transversal skills Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Summarize an article or a technical report.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods The course is organised in theoretical sessions and multi-body dynamics modelling to be realised in projects. Expected student activities Classroom participation, reading assignments, exercises on theoretical concepts, and mini-projects on computational modeling and analysis Assessment methods Mini-project assignments during the semester; final written exam.\u00a0 Supervision Office hours Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "FIN-411", "name": "Accounting for finance", "description": "The objective of the course is to provide participants with financial accounting mechanisms for understanding the financial statements of a company. Content The main financial statements Basic accounting concepts, techniques and corporate annual reports Financial statements analysis \u00a0 Keywords Financial accounting, Financial statements analysis Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain major accounting conceptsAnalyze the financial statements of a companyInterpret major accounting documentsAssess / Evaluate the impact of a decision on the financial statements of a companyJustify the difference between cash-flows and equity of a company Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods Lectures, discussions/case studies. Expected student activities Class attendance, exercises and cases Assessment methods 30% Midterm written exam (closed book) 20% (1) Financial analysis of a company (group work) 50% Final written exam (closed \u00a0book)"}
{"courseId": "CS-208", "name": "Computer architecture", "description": "The course introduces the students to the basic notions of computer architecture and, in particular, to the choices of the Instruction Set Architecture and to the memory hierarchy of modern systems. Content ' Complex digital systems in VHDL.' Basic components of a computer.' Instruction Set Architectures.' Assembly-level programming.' Multi-cycle implementation of processors.' Caches.' Virtual memory. Keywords Computer Architecture, Basic Processor Architecture,Instructions Sets, Cache Hierarchies, Virtual Memory. Learning Prerequisites Required courses ' Conception de syst\u00e8mes num\u00e9riques Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design and implement a processor at the Register Transfert Level using logic synthesizers and simulators.Develop assembly language programs.Justify the organization of a modern memory system including cache hierarchies and virtual memory..Design and implement a cache memory. Teaching methods Courses and labs on a dedicated FPGA board. Assessment methods Midterm exam and final exam. Resources Bibliography David A. Patterson and John L. Hennessy, Computer Organization and Design: The Hardware/SoftwareInterface, Morgan Kauffman, 5th edition, 2013. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Computer Organization and Design: The Hardware-Software Interface / Patterson"}
{"courseId": "MSE-623", "name": "Laser Processing of Materials: From Optical Properties of Materials and Light-Matter Interaction to Applications", "description": "The course goal is to transmit complete and deep understanding of all aspects of laser processing. It presents applications such as laser marking, welding, cutting, ablation, and additive manufacturing. The energy flow is followed from laser light emission, to heat, to materials transformations. Content 1) Principles of laser operation, types of lasers2) Properties of the laser light: light controlled in time and space3) Optical properties of the materials and their physical origin at atomic level4) Fundamentals of light-matter interaction: linear/non-linear absorption, refractive index, influence of light properties such as wavelength or pulse length on the process5) Laser light delivery: imaging, focusing, high resolution patterns - beam quality, resolution limits6) Principles of laser processing: efficiency, importance of understanding heat flow, serial processing, parallel processing, ... 7) Applications of laser processing in micro-technique: welding, cutting, drilling, ablation, ...8) Generative techniques: sintering, 3D-lithography, laser induced CVD Note Course schedule: 4 days of lecture at EPFL, 1 day of practical work at EMPA, Thun (splitted in groups, each student only one of the days) Keywords Lasers, laser processing, optical properties, light-matter interaction"}
{"courseId": "CS-476", "name": "Real-time embedded systems", "description": "A real time system has to accept important temporal constraints. Design of a multiprocessor on an FPGA for a data acquisition system as a Web server is done. Multiprocessors, accelerators, custom instructions, specialized hardware are some ways to improve the performance of a specific application. Content During this course, measures of response time to interruptions are studied and tested in laboratories, such as for example the influence of dynamic memories, cache memories, option of compilation. Measurements of response time to the interruptions, task's commutations, primitives of synchronizations are carried out on an embedded system based on a FPGA.The course includes the study of models of management of an embedded system by polling, interruptions and using a real time kernel with its primitives of tasks management and synchronizations.Specialized programmable interfaces are carried out in VHDL to help with these measurements. A real time kernel is studied and used at the time of the laboratories. A system of acquisition is carried out and the gathered data transmitted by an embedded Web server. To ensure the real time acquisition and reading by the Web server, a multiprocessor system is developed and carried out on FPGA. An Accelerator designed in VHDL makes it possible to facilitate the optimization of functions by hardware on FPGA. Cross development tools are used. Each topic is treated by a theoretical course and an associated laboratory. The laboratories are realized on a FPGA board including a multiprocessor hardcore. A real time operating system is studied and used with the laboratories.\u00a0 Keywords Real Time, FPGA, SOC, microprocessor, hardware accelerator, custom instruction, Real Time OS Learning Prerequisites Required courses Introduction to computing systems, Logic systems, Computer architecture Recommended courses Embedded Systems, Real time Programming Important concepts to start the course Programmable Logic Architecture (FPGA), Computer Architecture, VHDL, C programming, Real Times basic knowledge (semaphor, synchronization) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design a multiprocessor system on FPGAAnalyze the performance of a real time embedded systemUse design tools for Soc conception on FPGAImplement a complete Web Server and a multiprocessor on a FPGATest the realized systemDefend the choises during the design phases Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Make an oral presentation.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, laboratories and a mini-project Expected student activities 4 groups of laboratories on specific topics, with a report by group for each of them, 1-2 weeks/topic; A final mini-project to practically synthetize the content of the course, with the design of a multiprocessor system on FPGA, including for example a Web-server, a camera controller, a specific algorithm to transpose in FPGA hardware accelerator, 3~4 weeks for this mini-project Assessment methods Continuous control with reports and oral presentationall labos 50% final mini-project 50% Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-453", "name": "Robotics practicals", "description": "The goal of this lab series is to learn how to apply control methods for a variety of robots, ranging from industrial robots to autonomous mobile robots, to robotic devices, all the way to interactive robots. Content The TP cover the follwwoing topics: Optic Flow-based Mobile Robot Control: The goal of this laboratory is to apply locomotion concepts used by insects in the control of mobile robots. More specifically, students use the concept of optic flow, used by many species of insects, to program an embedded controller on a wheeled robot to avoid obstacles or follow corridors. Artificial Muscles: This laboratory first provides a general overview of artificial muscle technologies used in robotics with particular emphasis placed on dielectric elastomer actuators (DEAs), a type of soft, elastomer-based actuator. Then, students fabricate DEAs by hand and test the mechanical and electrical properties of their devices, comparing their results with theoretical predictions. Outdoor Flying Robots: This laboratory offers a practical exercise on the design of a combined altitude and speed controller for a miniature autonomous airplane. The students will first design a controller with a MATLAB/Simulink simulation model and then consider the issues of porting it to the real platform. Mobile robot position estimation and navigation: The goal of this practical is to implement position estimation and navigation on the marXbot mobile robot.Position will be estimated by matching histograms of distances between the robot sensor and a reference map. Teaching Robots to Accomplish a Manipulation Task: In this robotic practical, the student will be teaching a robot to build a tower by stacking several objects on top of each other. Each group is provided with five objects with different shapes and sizes. In order to accomplish this task,\u00a0the robot must be capable of 1) identifying the objects; 2) estimate the location and pose of the objects; 3) generate appropriate motion to pick up each object and stack these on top of other objects. Industrial SCARA Robot Adept: The Adept Cobra s350 is a high performance robot specifically designed for tasks such as assenbly, manipulation or packaging where there is need of fast and precise actions. The goal of the practical is to learn using this system by a set of simple tasks. Haptics: This\u00a0lab is closely linked to research projects in haptics and medical\u00a0robotics carried out at the Laboratoire de Syst\u00e8mes Robotiques. It will give you a brief overview of the state of the art of haptic devices, problems which have to be addressed to generate useful sensations, the type of sensations that can be produced, as well as how they can be programmed. The robot ABB IRB 120: The goal of this practical is to get familiar with industrial robots with a serial structure. The students will get a first introduction to the robot, then will have to implement an application using this device. Delta Direct Drive: This practical introduces the students to manipulation robots having a parallel structure. In particular the modelisation and the control are compared with the corresponding techniques present in more classical systems. Assembly, programming and characterization of a modular fish robot: This practical is aimed at realizing a swimming fish robot using the same modules used for the Salamandra robotica II and AmphiBot III robots. Students will first implement some simple programs on the on-board microcontroller, then assemble the modules together and implement a trajectory generator for swimming. Finally, the performance of the robot and its dependency on the trajectory parameters will be characterized. \u00a0 Keywords industrial robotics, haptics, autonomous robots, manipulation, navigation Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Robotics Programming Automatic control Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate the performances or a robotic systemSynthesize a control systemDiscuss the performances of a systemElaborate the model of a system Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Collect data.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Students attend a set of practicals by groups of two, supervised by an assistent. Expected student activities Preparation of the practicals before attending it, writing of the rreport after the practical. Assessment methods Written report and oral feedback during the practical Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "BIO-629", "name": "Practical - Naef Lab", "description": "Biological modeling. The student will become familiar with a few selected classical and recent research articles in the field of biological modeling, or model driven analysis of biological data. Content Day 1: Introduction by the PI. Study of articles. Day 2: Practical exercices in matlab article presentation (each student presents one article). Day 3: one day simulation miniproject. Possible topics include: 1) simulation of an enzymatic reaction, validity range of the Michaelis-Menten approximation. 2) Simulation of a biochemical oscillator, effect of noise on period length, collective synchonization in phase oscillators. Analysis and simulation of a predator-prey model. The goal is that the student becomes aware of a number of quantitative approaches that he might apply in his future research. The course will also serve as an introduction to matlab, in particular the possibility of simulating simple differential equation systems. Reading topics will include cell cycle models, patterning in the drosophila embryo, models of circadian clocks. Note Note that while the course is open to all first year EPFL doctoral students, priority will be given to EDMS students, given that they are mandated to take three of EDMS practical modules. Note also that doctoral students from the Naef laboratory cannot take this course. Access is limited to 4 students. Keywords Biological modeling, systems biology"}
{"courseId": "CS-596", "name": "Optional project in computer science", "description": "Individual research during the semester under the guidance of a professor or an assistant. Content Subject to be chosen among the themes proposed on the web site :\u00a0http://ic.epfl.ch/semester_projects_by_laboratory Learning Prerequisites Required courses In case the project II has been achieved successfully, the Master students have the possibility to do an additional semester project, called optional project and worth 8 ECTS credits. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Organize a projectAssess / Evaluate one's progress through the course of the projectPresent a project Transversal skills Write a scientific or technical report.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art. Teaching methods Individual and independant work, under the guidance of a professor or an assistant. Assessment methods Oral presentation and written report."}
{"courseId": "AR-482", "name": "UE W: Reading construction", "description": "Students will analyze the technical characteristics of selected buildings constructed in different contexts. Through such analysis, students will learn how to identify, rationalize, represent, and eventually intervene on, the possible forms of \"value\" generated by specific building experiences. Content As-built architecture; post-occupancy evaluation; design performance; industrial constraints; buildability; project management; project-firm. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze built outcomes.Undertake ideal-type analysis.Prepare and conduct technical interviews with industry representatives.Identify and engage with the various types of environmental conditions that have an impact upon the role of the design professions, the configuration of the building industry and the nature of its products in any given region.Understand critically the relationship between design practice, cultural values, spatial needs and industrial landscapes.Combine data from primary and secondary sources to develop a scholarly argument.Derive theoretical positions from empirical work. Teaching methods Weekly lecture-seminar format integrated with site visits. Expected student activities Weekly analysis of case studies to discuss in class and preparation of a detailed group report on an assigned case-study. Sections of the report will be prepared and assessed individually.\u00a0 \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "EE-588", "name": "Advanced lab in electrical energy systems", "description": "The purpose of this teaching lab is to put together all the concepts learned during the course into electrical energy by the implementation of an islanded production unit. The number of places is limited, therefore the student must contact the teacher before the beginning of the course. Content The goal of this teaching lab is to follow all the steps for setting-up of an islanded production unit.\u00a0The group consists of a direct current machine and of a synchronous machine.\u00a0The DC machine is used to model an hydraulic turbine. To do this a speed control will be implemented in a DSP. The whole design will be made such as, the choice of controller type, the type of control, the type of criteria ( symmetric or meplat ), measurement of small time constants, the controller implementation (C code) , and tests under steady state as well as in transient.\u00a0The synchronous machine is used as a generator and commissioning of industrial voltage regulator (Unitrol of ABB) will be made. Will also follow a customization of the coefficients of the control as well as tests in transient and steady state.\u00a0The group will then be tested on different loads (resitive and capacitive loads and induction machine).\u00a0Finally, the different production units will be connected together to create an interconnected islanded network and inherent interconnection/synchronization problems will be adressed. The following will be studied : Modeling of a hydraulic turbine by a DC machine Tests on the synchronous machine (determination of the parameters) Speed control Voltage regulator Islanded production unit Interconnection of islanded units During this teaching lab the student is left very free and independent. A \"global\" order is given but the way forward is not explained and the student must put his skills out to analyze problems and reflect on the paths to follow to reach the goal. Keywords Production unit DC machine Synchronous machine Speed control (DSP) Voltage regulator (Unitrol) Islanded network Interconnection of islanded production units Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Perform an interconnection with other production unitsAnalyze problemsCreate a production unitUse an industrial voltage regulatorPerform tests on electrical machineDesign a speed controlTest an islanded production unitApply all the knowledge learned as a student in electrical energy Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking Teaching methods Practical work in groups Expected student activities Attend every session and participate actively Assessment methods Obligatory continuous. Lab books are given back for correction during the semester and a final oral examination. Supervision Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "EE-525", "name": "HF and VHF circuits and techniques II", "description": "Master the design of circuits and systems at high frequency (HF) and very high frequency (VHF) (1 MHz-6GHz). This lecture is particularly oriented towards circuit aspects of modern communications systems Content 1) HF PowerAmplifiers2) Mixers3) Oscillators4) Frequency Synthesizers5) Modulators and Demodulators (Circuit aspects)6) Transceivers Architecture7) Spread-Spectrum Techniques8) Aspects of Mobile Communications Systems: the GSM Keywords Radio frequency wireless communication circuits HF and VHF wireless communication circuits Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses HF and VHF circuits and techniques I Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design an amplifierDesign an oscillatorAssess / Evaluate the stability of an amplifierAssess / Evaluate the architecture of a receiverAssess / Evaluate the architecture of a transmitterAssess / Evaluate the topology of an oscillatorAssess / Evaluate the topology of an amplifierAssess / Evaluate the impedance matching circuits at the input/output of an amplifier Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Manage priorities.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsUse a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Ex cathedra and exercises Expected student activities To follow the courses and to do the exercises. Assessment methods Ex-cathedra course Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-391", "name": "Interfaces in biology and nanoscience", "description": "A biological system is composed of water, macromolecules and interfaces. Processes inside the cell depend on biomolecular interactions that are decomposed into elementary physical and chemical interactions. Organizing, quantifying, and contextualizing these interactions are the course objectives. Content Introduction and numerical aspects Driving forces in biological systems Langmuir films; surfaces in 2D and electrical aspects Water Interfaces in 3D: self-assembly Techniques to probe interfaces State of the art Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Thermodynamics, partial properties, Boltzman distribution, Chemical structural elements (pi bonds, H bonds), intergartion, differentation Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Recognize the following interactions to liquids and biomolecules: Charge-charge, Charge-dipole, Dipole-dipole, Hydrogen bonding, Dispersive interactionsCharacterize how the intermolecular interactions between many molecules are coming together on an interface and how interfacial properties can be measured.Quantify the relevant molecular forces and interactions in a liquid system exemplary of a biochemical systemContextualise a biological situation into a physic-chemical descriptionAssess / Evaluate the combined interactions on the molecular level and estimate the driving force for nanoparticle formation and self-assembly of micelles, liposomes and other membrane structures.Apply abstract rules in a systematic matter to a liquid system and calculate simple predictions about the stabilitybetween abstract concepts learned in math, physics and chemistry and apply them to a situation in a cell.Analyze a biochemical molecule, a solution or an interface and be able to determine what the important characteristics and interactions are. Teaching methods Lectures, exercises, projects Expected student activities Students are expected to studye the book as instructed during the course, the are encouraged to make the exercises during class and part of the course may consist of the students contributing to the exam material Assessment methods There will be one exam. During the semester there will be opportunities to make exercises that are typical exam questions. The teaching assistants will be present for providing feedback. One bonus point can be awarded from assignments during the semester, which entitles the student to add maximum one point to the final grade."}
{"courseId": "BIO-611", "name": "Practical - Constam Lab", "description": "During development, cell fates are governed by multiple microenvironmental cues and their integration by specific signal transduction pathways. This course focuses on imaging of mechanosensory cilia or of molecules implicated in specific signal transduction events during mammalian embryogenesis. Content A theoretical introduction will summarize known roles of one of several specific signal transduction pathways in mammalian embryogenesis and their relevance for cancer and other diseases. Students will then transfect cultured cells and microdissect mouse embryos or organs under a stereomicroscope for live imaging of either cilia-induced signaling events or of a FRET-based biosensor of proteolytic activities. It is recommended to enquire in advance on which of these systems the course will focus on because this choice will be adapted to evolving research priorities at the time of the actual experiment. The student will be enabled to: microdissect mouse embryos or tissues under a stereomicroscope prepare small tissue samples for whole mount imaging of RNA or protein expression and localization, and to design the necessary experimental and control groups explain known functions of mechanosensitive primary cilia or of localized proteolysis of specific growth factors or adhesion molecules in epithelial cell differentiation and polarization recognize limitations of available methods to study dynamic processes in mammalian development Note Note that while the course is open to all first year EPFL doctoral students, priority will be given to EDMS students, given that they are mandated to take three of EDMS practical modules. Note also that doctoral students from the Constam laboratory cannot take this course. Access is limited to 3 students. Keywords Embryogenesis, cancer, proteases, TGFb signaling, primary cilia, imaging Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basics of molecular and cell biology. Assessment methods Quiz (multiple choice questions)"}
{"courseId": "FIN-603", "name": "Dynamic Asset Pricing", "description": "This course provides an advanced introduction to the methods and results of continuous time asset pricing theory. Content We will cover recent asset pricing models that have been proposed to study and explain the main asset pricing puzzles. Topics will include no-arbitrage restrictions on asset prices, homogenous and heterogenous equilibrium models, and non additive preferences such as preferences under ambiguity aversion. Keywords Asset Pricing; General Equilibrium; Optimal Portfolios. Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Knowledge of discrete-time asset pricing and the stochastic discount factor approach in discrete time.\u00a0 \u00a0 Knowledge of stochastic calculus, including Girsanov Theorem, Feynman-Kac and It\u00f4's formula for stochastic integrals.\u00a0 Assessment methods Written exam."}
{"courseId": "Caution, these contents corresponds to the coursebooks of last year", "name": "Technology and Public Policy - (c) Technology, intellectual property and innovation policy", "description": "The course offers an introduction to science, technology and innovation (STI) policy. Broadly stated, STI policy aims at supporting to conduct of the STI venture. The course is organised in three modules, seeking to cover the 'why', 'how', and 'how well' of STI policies. Content This course offers an introduction to science, technology and innovation (STI) policy. We understand: science policy as the area of public policy which is concerned with the policies that affect the conduct of the science enterprise and the training of scientists (e.g., research grants and mobility programmes); technology policy as concerning the support, enhancement and development of technology (e.g., R&D tax credit and intellectual property rights); and innovation policy as concerning the actual implementation of technologies (e.g., commercialization and start-up support). The course is organised in three modules, seeking to cover the 'why', 'how', and 'how well' of STI policies. 1. Rationales for STI policy. Policies are financed with public (i.e., tax) money, and this module will explain the economic rationales for the state to support STI activities. It will explain that STI activities are subjects to a variety of market failures which require government intervention. 2. STI policy tools. There are various ways in which government can 'intervene' (i.e., spend money) to support STI activities, and this module will give an overview of the most common demand and supply-driven policy tools. 3. STI policy evaluation. Much like a medical doctor does on her own patients, the government does intervene to address fundamental failures in private agents' incentives'and ability'to conduct STI activities. However, government intervention in the field of STI policy is seldom evaluated. This module will discuss evaluation strategies and results. The class in organised in block, and students are evaluated on a term paper. The paper should identify a failure in the student's specific field, propose a new or discuss an existing policy tool to address it, and discuss possible ways to evaluate the policy intervention as well as results of evaluation programs conducted, if any. LEARNING OUTCOMES By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the rationales for public support of STI activities. Describe the main tools available to policy makers. Propose a methodology for evaluating a policy intervention. Keywords Policies for the knowledge economy; Policy evaluation; Science of Science; Intellectual Property; Entrepreneurship."}
{"courseId": "MICRO-432", "name": "Microelectronics", "description": "Analysis of the relationship between the structure of the main microelectronic devices and their electrical characteristics and explanation of the role and behavior of the systems studied in an integrated circuit. Evolution of technology and microelectronic components. Content Summary of semiconductor physics: Energy band diagrams, drift and diffusion currents, mobility, temperature effects. MOS transistor advanced topics: Weak inversion, down scaling, high electric field, bipolar transistor mode of operation. Compound semiconductors, hetero-junctions and devices: Equilibrium, current-voltage characteristics, capacitance; FETs, HEMT, heterojonction bipolar transistor, electrical models. Bipolar junction transistors: scaling down, ballistic transport, high frequency structures. Noise in integrated circuits: thermal noise, shot noise, generation-recombination noise, 1/f noise and noise in circuits. Parasitic and limiting effects in devices and circuits: Parasitic resistances, capacitances and inductances, leakage currents, hot carrier effects, breakdown. CMOS digital and analog integrated circuits: Principal building blocks and functions; Example: integrated Hall magnetic field sensors. Memories: Working principles and structures of ROM, PROM, EPROM, DRAM, SRAM, FLASH. Yield and reliability: Defect density, relation with design rules, yield statistics; Reliability, failure rate, failure mechanisms due to high electric field effects, electro-migration, heat dissipation, and packaging stress. Design of integrated circuits: Project outline, schematic, layout, design rules, numerical modelling and simulation. Integrated sensor microsystem: Example: Integrated optical detector. Current trends in microelectronics: State of the art and scaling down. Keywords Semiconductors, silicium, III-V compounds, GAAs, diode, bipolar transistor, MOS transistor, HEMT, CMOS, Memories, ROM, RAM, Flash, reliability, yield, design, integrated circuit, IC, schematic, layout, design, model, simulation. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Composants semiconducteurs MICRO-312 Recommended courses Composants semiconducteurs MICRO-312 Important concepts to start the course Energy band diagram, semiconductor device modellisation Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Develop electronic properties of devices and circuits.Explain basic microelectronic devices such aas FET, BJT, CMOS, Memories.Discuss main electronic circuits, including digital and analogue components.Formulate fundamental equations of the mains components and circuits.Model microelectronics devices.Illustrate design tools for intergrated circuits Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Ex-cathedra course with exercises. Expected student activities Attend to the lectures. Exercises solved with personal work. Associated thinking for every topic. Assessment methods 20% exercises 80% oral examination (2 questions) Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Bibliography Notes polycopi\u00e9es :1. S.M. Sze: \"Semiconductor Devices\", J. Wiley & Sons, 20022. S.M. Sze, Kwok K. Ng:\u00a0 \"Physics of semiconductor devices\", 3rd Edition, J. Wiley& Sons, 20073. H. Mathieu, H. Fanet: \"Physique des semi-conducteurs et des composants \u00e9lectroniques\", 6e \u00e9dition, Dunod, Paris, 20094. R. Jacob Baker: \"CMOS, Circuit Design, Layout and Simulation\", 3rd Edition, Wiley, 20105. H. Veendrick: \"Deep-submicron CMOS ICs\", Kluwer, 2000 Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Semiconductor Devices / SzePhysique des semi-conducteurs / MathieuCMOS / Baker Deep-submicron CMOS ICs / VeendrickPhysics of semiconductor devices / Sze Notes/Handbook Distributed handsout at each lecture Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/enrol/index.php?id=8261"}
{"courseId": "ME-444", "name": "Hydrodynamics", "description": "Nondimensionalized Navier-Stokes equations result in a great variety of models (Stokes, Lubrification, Euler, Potential) depending on the Reynolds number. The concept of boundary layer enables us then to identify the different components of the hydrodynamic drag. Content The objective of this class is to describe and understand hydrodynamic flows by means of physical modeling. With help of dimensional analysis of the Navier-Stokes equations, several fluid models are introduced depending on the dominant physical effects: hydrostatics, capillarity, dissipation or inertia. This approach allows to describe important concepts like lift or wave dispersion and naturally leads to the concept of boundary layer so as to understand the appearance of drag, Keywords Waves, drag, lift, lubrication, boundary layer Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Incompressible fluid dynamics fluid flows Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain in scientific terms the basic concepts of continuum mechanics (e.g. kinematics, dynamics, conservation equations, Eulerian/Lagrangian approach, stress and strain tensors, constitutive laws, linear elasticity, Newtonian fluid) and apply them to model and analytically resolve simple problems, AH42Link flow behaviour with non-dimensional parameters (e.g. Reynolds and Mach numbers), AH2Resolve analytically or numerically the potential flow around an airfoil, AH25Describe flow in simple geometries, such as over a flat plate, in a tube, or around a sphere or airfoil, AH11State the conserved quantities in a given flow and link them to a physical-mathematical description, AH16Define, describe and apply the basic flow equations, such as the Navier-Stokes equations, AH17Describe simplified governing equations, such as the Bernoulli or potential equations, their domain of validity and apply them in appropriate situations, AH19Obtain by an order of magnitude analysis, the simplified equations describing lubrication and boundary layers, AH22Describe in detail the physical phenomena associated with the interaction of a flow with a solid wall (as a function of its characteristics, e.g. roughness), AH5 Transversal skills Summarize an article or a technical report.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions. Teaching methods Lectures and exercise sessions Assessment methods Oral exam Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MGT-625", "name": "Readings in Organization Economics", "description": "This course will expose you to a broad range of topics in a research field labeled as \u00e2\u0080\u0098Organizational Economics\u00e2\u0080\u0099, by focusing on the following main questions: - How is knowledge produced? - How do organizations manage the innovation processes? - How do industries evolve over time? Expected student activities To prepare for each session, you will read from the list for that day assigned. A discussion leader will review briefly the reading(s) assigned and comment on it(them). The rest of the class will then join in as interest and time dictates. Assessment methods Your grade will be based on class participation (50%) and a final oral presentation (50%). While the primary purpose of the course is to expose you to a broad range of topics in a research field labeled as `Organizational Economics', an important secondary objective is to develop your skills to critically evaluate research papers in the discipline. Doing so is the best way to learn how to design and structure your own research projects as well as how to develop theory and present it in the format of empirical research papers. For this reason, this course has a seminar format and requires your active participation."}
{"courseId": "PHYS-449", "name": "Optics III", "description": "Understand, design and analyze optical structures, components and systems based on Fourier techniques, optical confinement and non-linear optical response. Prepares students for the use of such optics concepts in theoretical and experimental studies of related problems in science and engineering. Content \u00a0 1.\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Fourier Optics \u00a0 1.1\u00a0 Fourier Analysis ' a Review 1.2\u00a0 Spatial Propagation 1.3\u00a0 Pulse Propagation 1.4\u00a0 Image Formation and Processing \u00a0 \u00a02.\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Optical Waveguiding and Confinement \u00a0 2.1\u00a0 Optical Wavguides 2.2\u00a0 Coupled Mode Theory 2.3\u00a0 Optical Microcavities 2.4\u00a0 Waveguide and Cavity devices \u00a0 \u00a03.\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Nonlinear Optics \u00a0 3.1\u00a0 Nonlinear optical susceptibility 3.2\u00a0 Wave propagation in nonlinear media 3.3\u00a0 Some applications of nonlinear optics Learning Prerequisites Required courses Optics I \u00a0 Recommended courses none \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Formulate approach for solving optics problemsAnalyze optical systemsEstablish competence in designing optical systems Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Ex cathedra with exercises each week"}
{"courseId": "CH-710", "name": "Gene transfer and recombinant protein expression in animal cells", "description": "Recombinant proteins synthesized by animal cells are becoming increasingly important in the prevention and treatment of disease.- The objective of the course is to provide an overview of this process, from vector design strategies to industrial manufacturing of biopharmaceuticals. Content Animal cell biology : (i) Cell growth and division, (ii) Transcription and translation (iii) Protein processing.Subjects discussed in class could include:History of animal cell technology Animal cell lines for recombinant protein expression Plasmid and viral expression vectors DNA purification DNA transfection into animal cells Transient gene expression in animal cells Establishment of stable cel lines Process development with stable cell lines Protein detection and purification Government regulations on biologicsOther topics may be included as needed. Note Next sesssion Spring 2018 Keywords recombinant protein, mammalian cells, cell culture, gene expression, transfection."}
{"courseId": "MSE-624", "name": "CCMX Advanced Course - Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM): Theory and Practice", "description": "The course features a theoretical introduction to Atomic Force Microscopy techniques and hands-on training for all levels of experience, from beginners to more advanced users. Content Introduction to Scanning Force Microscopy\u00a0 (SFM) and its application to different research areas of interest including applications in Biology to PhD students and researchers from industry. Outlook to Scanning Force Microscopy combined with a method for surface chemical analytics Hands-on practice in small groups with instruments supplied by Asylum Research, Nanosurf, and Empa. Best practices and improvement of the participants' SFM experience in the laboratory, focusing on SFM operation modes including contact mode, intermittent contact mode, peak force mode, true non-contact mode in vacuum, and, measuring different tip-sample forces including short-range forces, piezo-response,\u00a0 van der Waals forces, electrostatic (Kelvin) forces, and magnetic forces . Handling different types of samples including calibration grids, microstructured samples, polymer blends, hard disks. Possibility to measure your own samples. Note Please register with CCMX Keywords Atomic Force Microscopy, Scanning Force Microscopy, contact mode, intermittent contactmode, peak force mode, true non-contact mode in vacuum. \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses materials sciences, physics, chemistry Assessment methods Oral exam"}
{"courseId": "EE-575", "name": "Wave propagation along transmission lines", "description": "In this lecture, we will describe the theoretical models and computational methods for the analysis of wave propagation along transmission lines. Content 1. Transmission Line TheoryHypotheses, overview of models, Transmission Line and Antenna Mode Responses, derivation of telegrapher's equations\u00a02. Transient analysis for lumped source excitationTransmission of a pulse on an ideal line, multiple reflections, Bergeron diagram, reflections for different types of loads\u00a03. Wave propagation on multiconductor systemsDetermination of line inductance parameters, determination of line capacitance parameters, incorporation of losses. Modal analysis.\u00a04. Transient analysis for distributed source excitation : field-to-transmission line couplingDerivation of generalized Telegrapher's equations for field-excited lines. Representation of source terms. Different formulations of field-to-transmission line coupling equations. Plane wave excitation. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Electromagnetics I, II Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze transmission lines in the frequency domainAnalyze transmisssion lines in the time domainBe able to match a multiconductor transmission linesAnalyze transmission lines excited by external electromagnetic fieldsCompute/measure parameters of a transmission line Teaching methods Ex cathedra and integrated exercices Assessment methods Continuous control"}
{"courseId": "MSE-655", "name": "CCMX Advanced Course - Combining Structural & Analytical Investigations of Matter at the Micro-, Nano and Atomic Scale- (2016)", "description": "The course focuses on morphological and analytical structure research methods for materials science using electrons, photons and ions. Content Presentations will focus on theoretical background knowledge and challenges for analytical imaging on various types of materials. Each lecture will also contain a discussion on examples from the speakers' own or literature experiences, including talks on advantages, limitations and opportunities the discussed method. A special focus will also be set on sample preparation for analytical structure research in respect to resolution, sensitivity and accuracy of each method. This theoretical part will be followed by demonstrations and lab-visits to deepen the gained knowledge in a practical environment. \u00a0 '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Analytical electron microscopy '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Mass spectroscopy '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM) '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Electron Diffraction '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Energy Dispersive X-Ray Analysis (EDX) '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Electron probe microanalysis/wavelength-dispersive spectroscopy (EPMA/WDX) '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Electron Energy-Loss Spectroscopy (EELS) and Energy-filtered transmission electron microscopy (EFTEM) '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Electron Backscatter Diffraction Analysis (EBSD) '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS) '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Atom Probe Tomography '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Auger, XPS, ESCA spectroscopies Note Course taking place at ETH Zurich on Campus H\u00f6nngerberg Anders Meibom (EPFL) also teaches this course Keywords Atom Probe; EDX/ EELS;\u00a0 FE-SEM EDX/EBSD; FE-SEM EDX/WDX; SIMS; Mass spectroscopy Learning Prerequisites Required courses Degree in materials science, physics, chemistry"}
{"courseId": "EE-549", "name": "Propagation of acoustic waves", "description": "Acoustics course at MSc level focusing mainly on audible acoustics, extended to wave propagation in solids and moving fluids, and also to infra and ultrasound fields, in order to provide a broad view of the world of sound. Content 1 ' Overview of the main current themes in acoustics 2 ' Physical acoustics (basic equations of constitution) 3 ' Radiating vibratory structures (with membrane and flexion waves) 4 ' Acoustic/structure interactions (within acoustic/structure/fluid interactions) 5 ' Standard analytical methods and more recent numerical modelling methods (finite elements, boundary equations, rays, ') 6 ' Optimisation and inverse problems (active control, acoustic imaging ') \u00a0 The first sessions set the framework and then evolve towards a less structured itinerary across the various acoustic domains in order to provide a global view of the subject, while providing practical skills. All the above chapters cannot be covered within the course so the content \u00a0is adapted to the students' interests. \u00a0 Keywords Acoustics, Radiation, Vibration Learning Prerequisites Required courses Pre-requisite Mastery of the foundation knowledge in physics and mathematics acquired at B.Sc. level (L3) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Synthesize acoustic knowledgeFormulate a problemSolve a problem analyticallyExplore a complex problem numerically Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner. Teaching methods 1 ' Lectures punctuated with mini-calculations by the participants concerning the order of magnitude of the quantities dealt with. Constant checking of full comprehension by M.Sc. student participants. 2 ' Tutorials with supervision of exercises and problems Expected student activities 1 ' High degree of concentration \u00a0during the sessions 2 ' Assignments to assimilate the content 2h/week 3 -\u00a0 Assignments and personal reflexion on subtleties and in anticipation of future exercices and problems (at least 1h/week) \u00a0 The reward for the efforts is considerable as \u00a0it will result in the view from above coupled with concrete know-how mentioned above, which are expected fromM.Sc. graduates. Assessment methods 1 ' Close supervision of the students' progress during the tutorials where they learn to take initiative 2 ' Final written assessment of knowledge acquired\u00a0"}
{"courseId": "ENG-436", "name": "Food biotechnology", "description": "The course will deliver basic knowledge on the principles of food fermentation and enzyme technology. Specific processes related to food raw materials and food bioprocessing will be described. The course will describe benefits that food biotechnology can bring during food manufactuing. Content History of fermentation Different types of food fermentation Practical examples and benefits generated Probiotic technology Enzyme technology (general) Protease Lipases Carbohydrases Food bioprocessing (laboratory visit to be confirmed) Keywords Biotechnology, fermentation, food, enzyme, bioprocess Learning Prerequisites Required courses Basic chemistry and biochemistry Recommended courses It is recommended to also follow \"Chemistry of food processes\", since the following 2 courses will alternate every second week:\u00a0\"Food Biotechnology\" by Carl Erik Hansen and \"Chemistry of food processes\" by Imre Blank. Important concepts to start the course Combine knowledge related to chemistry, biology and food technology. Interest to learn how basic fermentation, enzyme technology and biochemistry is applied in food manufacturing to produce safe products with added benefits. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe basic principles of fermentationDescribe selected fermentation systemsUnderstand enzyme action and main classes of enzymesUnderstand factors related to probiotic technologyDescribe selected industrial food biotechnology processsDescribe selected classical fermentation pocessesDescribe how fermentation can deliver nutritionDescribe basic safety aspects of fermentation Transversal skills Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Make an oral presentation.Manage priorities. Teaching methods Lecture, short exercises, group or individual presentation on specific topic (the presentation will be individually if there are few students, or in group if there are more than 20 students). The presentation will count 20% of the final note. Expected student activities Attend lectures. Each student will give a 15 minutes presentation during the semester. This presentation will be given alone or as a team, depending on the number of students. A potential visit to a\u00a0Nestl\u00e9 research facility will be decided during the semester. Assessment methods The presentation will count 20% of the final note. The written exam will count 80% of the final note. Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No Others Q&A during the lectures. Short exercises during the lectures."}
{"courseId": "FIN-404", "name": "Derivatives", "description": "The objective of this course is to provide a detailed coverage of the standard models for the valuation and hedging of derivatives products such as European options, American options, forward contracts, futures contract and exotic options. Content Part I: Discrete-time models Introduction to derivatives Static models Multiperiod discrete time models American options and applications Convergence Part II: Continuous-time models Arbitrage, valuation and hedging in continuous time The Black-Scholes model Foreign exchange products American derivatives Exotic options \u00a0 Keywords Derivatives, options, arbitrage valuation, hedging Learning Prerequisites Required courses Introduction to finance Stochastic calculus I Stochastic calculus II (taken concurrently) Recommended courses Econometrics Important concepts to start the course In order to follow this course the student needs to have taken an introduction to finance, and must possess solid foundations in probability theory and stochastic calculus. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the principal types the principal types of derivatives contracts including forwards, futures and options and compare their basic usages for hedging or speculationDescribe and analyse the most common types of options strategies such as spreads, straddles, collars, and covered calls or puts.Formulate the no-arbitrage principle and illustrate its basic application in a model-free setting: cash and carry relations for different types of underlying securities with or without dividends, put/call parity, arbitrage bounds on option prices, early exercise of American options.Discuss the main characteristics of a general discrete time model with finitely many states of nature, multiple securities and possibly stochastic interest rates.Work out / Determine whether a given discrete-time model with finitely many states of nature is arbitrage free and has complete markets; Relate these properties to the existence and uniqueness of an equivalent martingale measure.Discuss and apply risk-neutral valuation to price and hedge derivatives of either European or American type in the context of a given discrete time model with finitely many states and complete markets.Construct and implement a binomial model to price and hedge both plain vanilla derivatives of European or American type as well as any exotic derivative.Describe the main assumptions of the Black-Scholes model and its limitations, derive the valuation partial differential equation and the Black-Scholes-Merton formula for the price of standard European options.Discuss the main option Greeks and use them appropriately for risk management and financial engineering purposes in the context of the Black-Scholes model or its extensions to futures contracts and foreign exchange.Work out / Determine whether a general Brownian-driven model of financial markets admits an equivalent martingale measure, relate the uniqueness of this probability measure to market completeness, and derive the risk-neutral dynamics of traded securities prices and relevant state variables.Derive the partial differential equation satisfied by the price of a European derivative in a given Markovian model, and use it with appropriate boundary conditions to price options in specific models.Formulate the valuation of American options as a free boundary problem for the valuation PDE in the context of the Black-Scholes model, derive and discuss exact solutions for the infinite horizon case and the Barone-Addesi-Whaley approximation for the finite horizon case. Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods Lectures and exercise sessions Expected student activities Participate in weekly lectures Participate in weekly exercise sessions Solve and turn in the weekly homework assignment (20%) Write a midterm exam (30%) and a final exam (50%) Assessment methods 20% Homework assignments 30% Midterm examination 50% Final examination Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes Resources Bibliography K. Back, A course in derivative securities, Springer Verlag, New York, 2005. N. Bingham and R. Kiesel, Risk neutral valuation, Springer Verlag, New York, 2004. J. Hull, Options, futures and other derivatives, Prentice Hall. D. Lamberton & B. Lapeyre, Introduction to stochastic calculus applied to finance, Second edition, Chapman and Hall, 2008. S. Shreve, Stochastic Calculus for Finance I and II, Springer Verlag, New York, 2004. T. Bjork, Arbitrage theopry in continuous-time, 2nd Edition, Oxford University Press, New York, 2004 Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Arbitrage theory in continuous-time / BjorkRisk neutral valuation / Bingham Introduction to stochastic calculus applied to finance / Lamberton Stochastic Calculus for Finance / ShreveA course in derivative securities / Back Options, futures and other derivatives / Hull Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=7331"}
{"courseId": "MGT-468", "name": "Leading and managing in a global context", "description": "This course provides management and leadership knowledge and tools to apply when working in global business contexts. Participants will define their personality traits and learn how these influence the way they work with, manage and lead others in different cultural situations. Content Leadership in a Global context: Identify key concepts and leadership styles and how they adapt to the global context. Explore own leadership experiences and style with areas for growth and development. Essential\u00a0Management Components: Recognize\u00a0management components necessary when managing and working with people. Topics covered are recruitement and motivation, remuneration, reward and development, feedback and conflict resolution. Particpants will work in teams to put in practice and present course learnings and team project. They will learn to take into consideration the global context in which they operate and how organisations take cultural differences into consideration. Identify and develop personal profile: Analysis of own style and perception of others through psychometric questionnaires and feedback of other participants. Exploration of cultural differences in class and development of cross cultural understanding and communication skills which are a key element of working in a global context. Keywords Management, Leadership, Global Context, Intercultural Communication, Self-Awareness Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Define personal profile and preferences when working with othersExplore strenghts and weaknesses and areas for improvementSynthesize key concepts of management and leadershipAssess / Evaluate people and provide constructive feedbackApply appropriate leadership style depending on situation and contextDemonstrate cultural sensitivity and intercultural communication skill Transversal skills Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles.Resolve conflicts in ways that are productive for the task and the people concerned.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures. Teaching methods Interactive lecture, simulations, group/team work, presentations, written reports, guest lecturer Expected student activities Individual precourse reading and session preparation Active listening and participation in class Team work and project preparation Presentation of team project Individual reflection paper Assessment methods Continuous assessment combining: Team Project: 60% (presentation 40% - Team Contract 5% - Written report on team dynamics 5% - peer review on participation 10%) Individual project: 40%"}
{"courseId": "CS-410", "name": "Technology ventures in IC", "description": "This hands-on class gives graduate students in IC interested in startups the opportunity to learn and put in practice the fundamental skills required to assess a technology concept in the context of a business opportunity. This class is focused only on business opportunities where high-technology Content Working in teams, students will learn the fundamentals of: Opportunity assessement Customer development and validation Business model alternatives Intellectual Property Strategy and Financial planning Go-to-market, launch, and growth This is a hands-on class where students start the class with their own technology venture concept (e.g. the work done as part of their PhD, or some well-formed idea, maybe with a prototype).\u00a0\u00a0 During the class, they convert their concept into a integrated business plan. \u00a0 Keywords Entrepreneurship, startups, \u00a0technology transfer, intellectual property\u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses None ' but available to MS and Ph.D. students only\u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze a business planCreate a business plan Teaching methods Short ex-cathedra presentations of each topic Hands-on seminar with many short student presentations\u00a0 Presentations from invited guests, in particluar industry executives and entrepeneurs Discussion and case studies \u00a0 Assessment methods In-class participation (30%)\u00a0 In-class presentations (30%) Final pitch (40%) \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "CH-401", "name": "Advanced NMR and imaging", "description": "Principles of Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and main applications to medical imaging. Principles of modern multi-dimensional NMR in liquids and solids and application to biomolecules and materials. Principles of Hyperpolarization. Content \u00a0 Projections of objects using magnetic field gradients. Image reconstruction by back- projection and by Fourier transformation. Contrast based on relaxation, diffusion, and contrast agents. Functional imaging. Imaging of flow and angiography. Advanced multi-dimensional correlation methods in magnetic resonance. Applications to protein strucutre determination and to determination of metabolism. Principles of multiple-pulse solid-state NMR. Applications to materials science. Principles of Nuclear Hyperpolarization and applications to imaging and spectroscopy. \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Nuclear Magnetic Resonance\u00a0 (by L. Emsley) \u00a0 \u00a0 Recommended courses Basic physical, organic, inorganic and biological chemistry \u00a0 \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course Spectroscopy, data analysis, analytical chemistry \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate the meaning and limitations of MRI picturesAssess / Evaluate an approach to structure determination of molecules by NMRDesign an NMR based approach to characterising materialsHypothesize how to produce hyperpolarized nuclear spins Teaching methods Lectures based on popular textbooks with ample addition of illustrations through recent applications and case studies. Regular excercise classes. \u00a0 Assessment methods Written examination \u00a0 Supervision Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "CH-630(1)", "name": "Seminars in Physical Chemistry (1)", "description": "Students attend the Physical Chemistry seminars to become familiar with current topics in Physical Chemistry and broaden their horizon beyond their own field. The course work involves essays, summarizing the lectures and placing them in the broader context of the respective field. Content The goal of this course is to broaden the students' horizon by making them familiar with current topics in Physical Chemistry, in particular with ongoing research outside their own field. To this end, the students follow the Physical Chemistry seminar series for one semester (http://isic.epfl.ch/PCseminar) and meet the speakers to discuss their research. As a term paper, the students write reports on four lectures of their choice. The reports should summarize the presentations in a succinct manner and place them within the context of the respective field of research and general developments in Physical Chemistry. Note Next session Fall 2017 Assessment methods Term paper"}
{"courseId": "COM-507", "name": "Optional project in communication systems", "description": "Individual research during the semester under the guidance of a professor or an assistant. Content Subject to be chosen among the themes proposed on the web site :\u00a0http://ic.epfl.ch/systemes-communication-projet-labo-master Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Organize a projectAssess / Evaluate one's progress through the course of the projectPresent a project Teaching methods Individual and independant work, under the guidance of a professor or an assistant. Assessment methods Oral presentation and written report."}
{"courseId": "MSE-600", "name": "Effects of radiation on materials", "description": "The purpose of this course is to provide the necessary background to understand the effects of irradiation on pure metals and on alloys used in the nuclear industry. The relation between the radiation-induced defects and the evolution of the mechanical properties is highlighted. Content 1. Fundamentals of radiation damage\u00a0 Defect production Defect accumulation Irradiation modes (electrons, ions, neutrons)\u00a02. Investigation tools\u00a0 Numerical tools (molecular dynamics, kinetic rate theory, Monte Carlo methods, dislocation dynamics) Experimental tools (transmission electron microscopy, small angle neutron scattering, positron annihilation spectrometry, field ion microscopy, internal friction)\u00a03.Materials for fission reactors\u00a04.Materials for thermonuclear fusion reactors Keywords Radiation, mechanical properties, fission reactors, fusion reactors, nuclear reactors, irradiated materials"}
{"courseId": "CS-420", "name": "Advanced compiler construction", "description": "Students learn several implementation techniques for modern functional and object-oriented programming languages. They put some of them into practice by developing key parts of a compiler and run time system for a simple functional programming language. Content Part 1: implementation of high-level concepts functional languages: closures, continuations, tail call elimination, object-oriented languages: object layout, method dispatch, membership test. Part 2: optimizations compiler intermediate representations (RTL, SSA, CPS), inlining and simple optimizations, register allocation, instruction scheduling. Part 3: run time support interpreters and virtual machines, memory management (including garbage collection). Keywords compilation,\u00a0programming languages,\u00a0functional programming languages,\u00a0object-oriented programming languages,\u00a0code optimization,\u00a0register allocation,\u00a0garbage collection,\u00a0virtual machines,\u00a0interpreters,\u00a0Scala. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Compiler Construction Important concepts to start the course Excellent knowledge of Scala and C programming languages Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate the quality of a compiler intermediate representationDesign compilers and run time systems for object-oriented and functional programming languagesImplement rewriting-based compiler optimizationsImplement efficient virtual machines and interpretersImplement mark and sweep or copying garbage collectors Teaching methods Ex Cathedra, mini-project Assessment methods Continuous control (mini-project 80%, final exam 20%) Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "EE-205", "name": "Circuits and systems II", "description": "This class teaches the theory of linear time-invariant (LTI) systems. These systems serve both as models of physical reality (such as the wireless channel) and as engineered systems (such as electrical circuits, filters and control strategies). Content The design of advanced systems (such as WiFi, cell phones, drones, airplanes) requires a thorough theoretical underpinning. This class teaches one of the most powerful and important pillars: The theory of linear time-invariant (LTI) systems. These systems serve both as models of physical reality (such as the wireless channel) and as engineered systems (such as filters and control strategies). The class will cover the following topics: \u00a0 Systems: Definitions (1 week) LTI Systems (3 weeks) The Frequency Response of stable LTI Systems (1 week) Fourier Techniques for stable LTI Systems (3 weeks);\u00a0with applications to Communication Systems and Signal Processing Laplace and Z-Transform Techniques for LTI Systems (5 weeks); with applications to Control Systems \u00a0 Keywords Systems, Circuits, Signals, Frequency Response, Transfer Function, Fourier Transform, Laplace Transform, Z Transform, Stability, Causality, Sampling Learning Prerequisites Required courses Analysis I, II, III. Linear algebra I. Recommended courses Linear algebra II Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe properties of LTI systemsSolve for poles and zeros of LTI systemsRecall properties of CT Fourier transformAnalyze LTI systems by spectral analysisOperate with Fourier transform toolsWork out / Determine impulse response of CT LTI Teaching methods Classroom lectures Written exercises Graded homework problems Expected student activities Read course book in english (the course is taught in english) Assessment methods Homeworks and written mid-term exam and final exams"}
{"courseId": "BIO-471", "name": "Cancer Biology I", "description": "The course covers in detail molecular mechanisms of cancer development with emphasis on cell cycle control, genome stability, oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes. Content The 2x5 credit course starts in the fall semester and continues throughout the spring semester as Cancer Biology II. In the fall semester (Cancer Biology I), the following topics are covered: -Oncogenes and tumor suppressors -Cell cycle regulation -Apoptosis and senescence -Signalling pathways in cancer -Genome maintenance and segregation -DNA repair -Functional genomic screens and targeted cancer therapies \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basic knowledge of molecular biology and genetics. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Expound mechanisms of cell cycle controlExpound mechanisms of genome maintenanceExpound principles of tumor developmentAssess / Evaluate published experimental resultsDesign experiments to test hypothesesCreate models to explain dataGive an example of a tumour suppresorGive an example of an oncogeneExpound cancer signalling pathways Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Make an oral presentation.Summarize an article or a technical report.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingSet objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives. Teaching methods Ex cathedra and exercices Assessment methods Continuous control Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No Others Office hours by appointment only. Resources Bibliography Robert A. Weinberg: The Biology of Cancer, 2nd edition 2013, Garland Science, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que The Biology of Cancer / Weinberg"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-731", "name": "Magnetic confinement", "description": "The course provides an overview of the fundamentals of magnetic confinement of plasmas for fusion. The different magnetic confinement configurations are presented, with a description of their operating regimes. The basic elements of particle and energy transport are introduced."}
{"courseId": "BIO-472", "name": "Cancer Biology II", "description": "The course covers in detail the interactions of cancer cells with their environment with an emphasis on tumor-angiogenesis, inflammation, adaptive and innate immunity and cancer-induced immune suppression. Additional topics are cancer metabolism, cancer stem cells and metastasis. Content The 2x5 credit course Cancer Biology I II starts in the winter semester and continues throughout the summer semester. Cancer Biology II covers: complex oncogenic signaling networks and hierarchical tumor organization tumor metabolism cell death signaling and apoptosis cancer histology with pratical training inflammatory signaling in cancer tumor angiogenesis tumor cell dissemination and metastasis innate immunity: pro-tumorigenic roles of inflammation, NK cells adaptive immunity: immuno editing, immune evasion, immunotherapy The weekly lectures will be followed by exercises. The task for these exercises will be student presentations of scientific articles which illustrate the course in order to consolidate the knowledge of the course topics. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Cancer Biolgy I Immunology Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Systematize major mechanisms of tumor-stroma interactionsInterpret published experimental studiesPropose new models based on experimental resultsDesign experiments to solve scientific questions in the area of cancer researchIntegrate information from various levels to evaluate signs of tumor progression Transversal skills Make an oral presentation.Summarize an article or a technical report.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Assessment methods Continuous evaluation during the semester with two intermediate exams"}
{"courseId": "ENG-611", "name": "Creative Problem Solving in Science and Engineering", "description": "Our globalized, connected world has become more complex and demanding. Problems and challenges our society has to face has grown tremendously. Are there systematic or more creative approaches to solve them, are there tools to help us addressing technical, societal, ethical and political issues? Content Curriculum (Theoretical part)1. Neurochemical basis of learning and creative processes in the brain2. Behavioural and chemical influences on creativity3. Personality traits of highly creative individuals (M. Csikszentmihalyi)4. Objective testing of the originality of thinking5. Group creativity: Brainstorming (A. Osborn)6. Creativity training: Lateral thinking (E. de Bono)7. Systematic problem solving (G. Polya)8. Morphological analysis and the morphological box (F. Zwicky)9. Lateral thinking puzzles and systematic solution approaches \u00a0 Curriculum (Practical part)1. Brainstorming exercises (Plenum)2. Lateral thinking puzzles (Plenum)3. Systematic solution of a tough scientific/engineering problem (Small groups)4. Poster preparation (Groups: Problem Process Solution)5. Debriefing session Keywords Creativity, systematic problem solving, morphological analysis, Polya approach, lateral thinking"}
{"courseId": "EE-730", "name": "Design of Ultra-low Power Wearable Wireless Systems", "description": "This course presents a coherent view of the subfields related to wearable and wireless systems. It presents the perspectives and the underlying technologies in the areas related to ultra low power electronic circuits, communication architectures, wearable sensors and multi-source signal processing. Content The goal of the proposed course is to provide a complete overview of the most relevant subfields related to wearable and wireless systems. It presents the perspectives and the underlying technologies in the areas related to ultra'low'power electronic circuits, communication architectures, wearable sensors, advanced signal processing and features extraction, as well as applications of these technologies in the field of human monitoring. Its aim is to address all issues related to the using of wearable/wireless sensors and to bring together scientists from computing, electronics, new schemes for biosignal analysis in order to present the latest technological developments and applications of body worn sensors. Furthermore, the course will include a clear cross-disciplinary conception in its basis as it will include scientists working on different fields ' sensors and actuators, signal processing, software, system architecture, application fields. The course will last for one full semester and will feature a number of different activities:- Lectures: each day will feature lectures and discussions around various research themes. Each session will include in'depth talks and theoretical lectures with processors on different aspects of ultra-low power wearable wireless systems and their applications. A Q&A discussion will follow each of these sessions. - Hands'on labs: the course will integrate each day hands'on with the theoretical classes. Thus, the lab sessions will provide hands'on experience on real devices with the topics covered in the morning lectures The evaluation will be done through the correction of the exercise sessions and one group project (in pairs of students) that will be developed at the end of the semester. The course is divided in three different modules: platforms and power management, communication, and sensors, signal processing and applications. The first part of the course will be dedicated to 'platforms' for ultra-low power wearable systems, with sub'topics ranging from design principles and approaches, to the discussion about available platforms and development tools. The development kit proposed for hands'on labs will be presented during this first module of the course. The participants will get familiar with all the instruments that will be using during the following modules of the course. Then, this module will cover how to design complete ultra-low-power wearable platforms that can be powered with minimal energy, and system-level software management for low'power at hardware and OS level. We will also cover the state-of-the-art and the key techniques to design low-power integrated circuits and SoCs for wearable wireless systems. The hands'on lab of this module is focused on software techniques for the aforementioned topics. The main topic of the second module is entitled 'communication': lectures will cover the main issues and challenges related to new protocols, management and optimization of communication for wearable wireless systems and networks. We will describe the essential concepts and transmission schemes behind current standards and introduce the basics of future emerging communication technologies and signaling schemes relevant to wireless sensor networks. The hands'on exercises related to this module will be focused on the several design trade'offs between high'level (like ZigBee) and low level protocols, as well as communication modeling around the body used as communication channel. The third module of the course is application-oriented lectures with focus on the actual needs in sport and clinics. It includes dedicated body worn sensors and signal processing, feature extraction and machine learning approaches, sensors fusion and data recording in wearable systems. The participants will have the opportunity to learn the state of the art and advances pervasive monitoring in heath and disease. The importance of outcome measures obtained through wearable systems and their validity is emphasized. Field measurement, daily activity recording as well as tools for analyzing long-term monitoring are presented through example in health and disease. The hands-on exercises of this module will cover practical issues about signal acquisition and software tuning and optimizations for physical mobility analyzing using wearable technology. Note The evaluation will be based on the correction of the exercises of the different modules and a final group project.\u00a0\u00a0 Keywords Wearable electronics, wireless body sensor networks, body communication, ultra-low power, system-level design, embedded systems, software optimization.\u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses - \"Co-design of Systems-on-Chip on Reconfigurable Hardware\" - \"Microelectronics for Systems on Chips\" Important concepts to start the course - Architectures of microprogrammed enbedded systems - Communication protocols - Signal processing concepts - Advanced programming Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Implement complex embedded systems for wearable electronicsOptimize complete wearable systemsFormulate system level optimization problemsAssess / Evaluate different choices of communication and processing blocksJustify the global system performance Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Lectures and exposition of theoretical concepts by the instructors (50%) and laboratories and development of a wearable system project in group (50%). Expected student activities Solve the laboratory sessions and develop a complete wearable system project in groups of students. \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0\u00a0 Assessment methods Correction of exercises during the laboratory sessions (20%) and presentation of final wearable system design project in groups of 2-3 students to the instructors (80%)."}
{"courseId": "PHYS-459", "name": "Metrology II", "description": "This course is a practical introduction to classical measurement techniques in a laboratory. The aim is to familiarise the students with data acquisition, sensors, signal processing, vacuum technology, automatic control. Some experiments of materials science are chosen as examples. Content I Electrical circuits, Bode diagrams, filters II Transducers and sensors (Force, displacement, temperature) III Thermal sensors and regulators \u00a0 Keywords electrical circuits, sensors, automatic control, signal processing, analogic signals, digital signals, vacuum, labview Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assemble a setup for measuring physical observablesSketch graphically the result of a measurementUse a measurement deviceJustify the advantage of an experimental setupRealize a measure chain for a sensorIllustrate how a sensor worksMake a calibration Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles.Resolve conflicts in ways that are productive for the task and the people concerned.Take responsibility for health and safety of self and others in a working context.Collect data.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate. Teaching methods Hands on tutorial classes in groups of 4-5 students working on a bench \u00a0 Assessment methods Oral exam while assembling of an experimental setup \u00a0 \u00a0 Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-801", "name": "Summer school on healthcare diagnostics", "description": "This summer school aspires to give PhD students an understanding of the current technological, economical and regulatory environment concerning the field of medical devices and personalized medicine by bringing together key leaders from academia, medicine, established corporations and young startups Content This school is particularly addressed to PhD students with an entrepreneurial mindset working on projects developing new diagnostic technologies, or students in the management of technology domain willing to expand their knowledge on the latest technology trends. The school will host up to 30 PhD students mainly coming from EPFL and ETHZ. Up to six places will be available to students coming from external institutions. The school is a 5-day event focusing around three topics: 1. Personalized medicine and eHealth ' the big picture, will explore the social, economical and regulatory context required for the diffusion of personalized medicine and eHealth practices 2. New technologies and approaches for personalized diagnostics, will present some of latest emerging technologies that will revolutionize the field of diagnostics in the next years 3. From lab to market ' how to transform technology into a product, will share the story of successful entrepreneurs, presenting the challenges they needed to face in bringing a technology on the market. Additionally, a Soft skills section - will teach students effective ways of written and oral communication and networking skills. We believe this part, critical for future employments, is often overlooked in academia. The school has a total educational time of 56 hours and is worth 2 ECTS credits. In order to get the credits, students will be requested to sign a presence sheet to confirm their attendance and to present a poster concerning their research activity. \u00a0 Program: 21.08.16: Welcome and registration 22.08.16: Personalized medicine and eHealth - the big picture. Soft skills: effective networking tips 23.08.16: New technologies and approaches for personalized diagnostics 24.08.16: From lab to market ' how to transform technology into a product. New technologies and approaches for personalized diagnostics. Soft skills: Effective scientific presentation 25.08.16: From lab to market ' how to transform technology into a product. New technologies and approaches for personalized diagnostics. Soft skills: Career transition from academia to industry 26.08.16: New technologies and approaches for personalized diagnostics. Student flash poster presentation. Round table. Student award 27.08.16: Departure Keywords healthcare diagnostics, biosensors, personalized medicine"}
{"courseId": "BIO-689(b)", "name": "Introduction to practical aspects of animal experimentation and animal facilities (Winter) (EDNE)", "description": "To acquire the practical skills with laboratory animals as requested by legislation (Swiss ordinance N\u00b0 455.109.1, October 2008) to get the accreditation to perform animal experimentation delivered by the State Veterinary Office of Canton de Vaud. Content Housing, biology and manipulation of laboratory rodents, anesthesia, pain assesment and analgesia, collecting biological samples and applying substances, animal health monitoring and hygiene rules in animal facilities."}
{"courseId": "FIN-402", "name": "Quantitative methods in finance", "description": "The course introduces students to some of the mathematical methods used in Finance and show how these methods are applied to solve fundamental problems in Finance. Content 1. Basic concepts in finance.\u00a0 Time value of money and present value formula. Forward contracts, Put and Call options. 2. Linear algebra and portfolios. Revision of basic linear algebra. One period market model with a finite number of assets:\u00a0 portfolio expected return and variance, portfolio diversification. 3. Choice under uncertainty. The investor's risk attitudes. Mean-variance criterium and\u00a0 expected utility criterium. Risk premium and certainty equivalent.\u00a0 Arrow--Pratt coefficient of risk aversion and corresponding utility functions. The investor's optimal (mean-variance) portfolio. 4. Concave static optimization. Concave programs\u00a0 without and with constraints. Solving concave programs using\u00a0 Kuhn-Tucker Theorem. Interpretation of Kuhn-Tucker multipliers. Geometric interpretation of Kuhn-Tucker Theorem. Economic theory examples. Derivation of the investor's optimal portfolios without and with constraints (expected utility and mean-variance criteria). 5. The impact of risk aversion on portfolio choice and equilibrium prices. The impact of different risk attitudes in portfolio choice. Financial market equilibrium and the representative investor. Link between the risk-adjusted probability measure of the representative\u00a0 investor and the risk-neutral probability. The Consumption Capital Asset Pricing Model and the Capital Asset Pricing Model. 6. No arbitrage pricing. One period market model with a finite number of states and assets. Complete and incomplete markets. Formalization of arbitrage opportunity (AO) of first and second type and the no-arbitrage opportunity hypothesis. The law of one price, the no-arbitrage pricing method, replicating portfolio and Arrow--Debreu securities. Fundamental Theorem of asset pricing. State price vectors,\u00a0 stochastic discount factor (SDF), risk-neutral probability measures and equivalent martingale measures. 7. Monte Carlo Methods. Techniques for generating random variables, e.g. inverse transform method and acceptance-rejection method to sample from unconditional and conditional distributions. Theory behind Monte Carlo estimates. Variance reduction techniques such as control variate, importance sampling, and antithetic variate. Application of these techniques to estimate option prices, Value at Risk (VaR) or other risk measures. Keywords Choice under uncertainty; Risk-aversion; Kuhn-Tucker theorem; No arbitrage pricing; Monte Carlo methods, variance reduction techniques. Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Basic notions of probability, linear algebra and analysis. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the basic concepts of time value of money and present value formula, and basic securities such as forwards, futures and options.Compute the expected return and variance of a portfolio in a static market model with a finite number of assets. Apply basic linear algebra to study the properties of the covariance matrix of the assets in the market. Show how to reduce the portfolio variance by the means of portfolio diversification.Formalize the no-arbitrage principle in one period market model with a finite number of states and a finite number of assets and determine when the market is complete or incomplete. Show that an arbitrage-free market which is complete is characterized by the existence and uniqueness of a risk-neutral measure. Use the SDF or the risk-neutral (equivalent) probability measure to price financial assets.Use different method, such as the inverse transform method and the acceptance-rejection method, to sample from unconditional and conditional distributions. Discuss Monte Carlo methods and provide the theoretical justification of Monte Carlo estimates. Implement variance reduction techniques such as control variate, importance sampling, and antithetic variate to estimate option prices in a Black-Scholes model, the Value at Risk (VaR) or other risk measures.Discuss the expected utility model and the mean-variance model. Show how the different risk attitudes of the investor can be characterized via the shape of the utility function.Describe and solve a concave optimization program without and with constraints.Derive the optimal portfolio of an expected utility maximizer investor under constraints. Discuss the role of the risk aversion in the optimal portfolio choice. Link the risk-adjusted probability measure of the representative investor to the risk-neutral probability. Transversal skills Write a scientific or technical report.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals. Teaching methods Lectures and exercises Assessment methods 20% exercises 30% midterm exam 50% final exam Supervision Assistants Yes Resources Bibliography Useful references are: K. Back, ``Asset Pricing and Portfolio Choice Theory\", Oxford University Press.\u00a0J. Cvitanic and F. Zapatero, ``Introduction to the Economics and Mathematics of Financial Markets\", MIT press.\u00a0G. Demange and J.C. Rochet, ``M\u00e9thodes Math\u00e9matiques de la finance\"\u00a0A.K. Dixit, ``Optimization in economic theory\", Oxford University Press, second edition.\u00a0P. Glasserman, ``Monte Carlo Methods in Financial Engineering\", Springer.\u00a0P. Koch Medina and\u00a0 S. Merino ``Mathematical Finance and Probability: A Discrete Introduction\", Springer.\u00a0D.G. Luenberger, ``Optimization by vector space methods\", Wiley.\u00a0W. Rudin, ``Principles of Mathematical Analysis\", McGraw-Hill Education, third edition.\u00a0C. P. Simon and L.E. Blume,\u00a0 ``Mathematics for Economists\", W. W. Norton and Company. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Asset Pricing and Portfolio Choice Theory / BackIntroduction to the Economics and Mathematics of Financial Markets / CvitanicM\u00e9thodes Math\u00e9matiques de la finance / DemangeOptimization in economic theory / DixitMonte Carlo Methods in Financial Engineering / GlassermanMathematical Finance and Probability / Koch MedinaOptimization by vector space methods / LuenbergerPrinciples of Mathematical Analysis / RudinMathematics for Economists / Simon Notes/Handbook Lectures are based on slides."}
{"courseId": "CH-250", "name": "Numerical methods in chemistry", "description": "This course introduces students to modern computational and mathematical techniques for solving problems in chemistry and chemical engineering. The use of introduced numerical methods will be demonstrated using the MATLAB programming language. Content Part I Basic features of Matlab: scripts, functions, variables, expressions, visualization Methods for solving linear equations Methods for solving non-linear equations Methods for solving ordinary differential equations (ODE) and differential-algebraic equations (DAE) Basic tools in data analysis Part II Laplace transform, convolution, and solution of ordinary differential equations Fourier series, separation of variables, and solution of partial differential equations Fourier transform Applications of integral transforms in chemical engineering and physical chemistry Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Solve numerically various problems in chemistry and chemical engineeringUse fluently the MATLAB programming languageWork out / Determine analytically Laplace and Fourier transforms, Fourier series, and convolutions of functionsApply integral transforms to solve analytically or numerically differential equations and other problems in chemistry and chemical engineering Assessment methods Part I (Miskovic): homeworks 50% midterm exam 50% Part II (Vanicek): homeworks 30% midterm exam 70% The points from the two parts are combined to form the final grade. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-114", "name": "General physics II", "description": "The course first develops the basic laws of electricity and magnetism and illustrates the use in understanding various electromagnetic phenomena. Content ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISMElectric fields: electric charges and fields; Coulomb's law; Gauss's lawElectric potential and energy: potential; energy; capacitance and capacitors; dielectric materialsMagnetism: magnetic forces and fields; Ampere's law; Biot-Savart lawElectromagnetism: electromotive force; Farady's law; inductance and inductors; Maxwell's equationsElectromagnetic waves: electromagnetic spectrum; antennas Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses General Physics I Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Formulate approach for solving physics problemsAnalyze physical systemsEstablish competence in complex problem solving Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Ex cathedra with demonstrations, exercises in class Assessment methods only final written exam Supervision Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "CS-491", "name": "Enterprise and service-oriented architecture", "description": "In this course, we teach how to define the requirements for an IT system that would best serve the needs of an organisation. The course is taught using a non-conventional style in which the students learn mostly through the stress of a series of concrete experiences that mimic real-life situations. Content The goal of this course is closely related to IT, but a substantial part the material is related to business, as well as philosophy and psychology. Some formal models and programming are also taught, but the course can be taken by non IT students.\u00a0 The exam might be written exam (to be agreed with the students at the beginning of the semester).\u00a0 Detailed contents:\u00a0 1) Business Part (4 weeks): practical experimentation and theoretical understanding of the key business processes of a manufacturing company : request for quotation process, development, planning, quality management and accounting. 2) Business / IT Part (6 weeks): specification of an IT system that provides after-sales service. We teach the following techniques : interviews, root cause analysis, analysis/design of the business services and of the IT services. The underlying theory is system thinking (Weinberg, Vickers) and the ISO/IEC standard RM-ODP. 3) IT Part (2 weeks): implementation - using BPMN visual programming - of an IT system prototype. Overview of the technological aspects of service-oriented architecture (wsdl, bpel, and soap protocols; rest architecture style). 4) Enterprise Architecture & Conclusions (2 weeks): Overview of the enterprise architecture frameworks (Zachman, TOGAF, Urba-EA). Synthesis and key learning points of the course. Keywords Request for quotation (RFQ), quotation, purchase order, leadtime, bill of material, development process, V process, spirale process, manufacturing planning, quality system, traceability, ISO 9000, financial statements, year-end book closing, ERP, interview, contextual inquiry, root-cause analysis, ITIL, business service, IT service, requirements engineeing, SEAM system modeling, SEAM goal-belief modeling, SEAM behavior modeling, Vickers appreciative system, behavioral refinment, information modeling, service-oriented architecture (SOA), BPMN, BPEL, WSDL, SOAP, REST.\u00a0 enterprise architecture (EA), Zachman, TOGAF, Urba-EA. Systemic paradigm, epistemology, ontology, axiology (ethics and esthetics). Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe business processes (sales, engineering, manufacturing, accounting)Assess / Evaluate business processes using ISO9000Coordinate business operations (role play)Analyze business needs for an IT system designAssess / Evaluate the IT processes using ITILConduct interviews with business stakeholdersFormalize business requirements for an IT system designDesign BPMN / BPEL workflow Transversal skills Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsWrite a scientific or technical report.Collect data.Make an oral presentation.Summarize an article or a technical report. Teaching methods Problem-based teaching"}
{"courseId": "MSE-650", "name": "Magnetic materials in modern technologies - from concepts to real devices", "description": "Magnetic materials are extremely versatile in modern technologies (sensing, data storage, anti-theft devices,\u00e2\u0080\u0160). The course explains how magnets are optimized for application-specific functionalities. The relevant subjects are further explored in exercises, simulations, students' presentations. Content Magnetic materials offer a very rich versatility for modern technologies; applications cover e.g. hard-disk drives in information technology, nanoscale field sensors, anti-theft devices and renewable energy harvesting in generators. The course addresses how materials and magnetic properties are tailored and optimized to obtain the different functionalities. A critical issue concerns the abundance of relevant elements/magnetic materials for future devices. Magnetic materials are also discussed in the framework of beyond-CMOS research lines. \u00a0 We discuss the relation between properties of magnetic materials and their composition, structure, as well as the underlying preparation techniques. We relate the specific functionalities with the technological applications. 1. Introduction 2. Basic concepts of magnetic materials (field-induced and spontaneous magnetism, magnetism of elements and alloys, saturation magnetization, magnetic anisotropies, demagnetization effect, reversible vs irreversible switching process, hysteresis, domain walls, dc and ac magnetic susceptibility, exchange and dipolar interactions, Ising model, Landau-Lifshitz-Gilbert equation, magnetoelastic coupling, exchange bias, spin polarization, spin waves/magnons) 3. Fabrication and synthesis techniques (bulk materials, thin films, nanoscale materials) 4. Properties of magnets (electric, magnetic, mechanical, optical, thermal) depending on composition, structure, preparation technique 5. Figure-of-merits of magnetic materials in different technologies and performance test, abundance, sustainability 6. Applications (e.g. storage, anti-theft devices, nanosensors, beyond-CMOS, biocompatibility) Note Lecture incl. exercises, students' presentations, micromagnetic simulations Keywords Hard and soft magnets, crystalline, amorphous, ferro-, ferri- and antiferromagnetic, anisotropies, domains, magnetoelectronics (spintronics), magnetooptics Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Fundamentals of solid-state materials, Theory of materials: from structures to properties, Solid state physics (or equivalent). Quantum physics."}
{"courseId": "EE-576", "name": "Electromagnetic compatibility", "description": "In this lecture, students will get the basic knowledge on electromagnetic compatibility. Content 1. EMC concept : Source of EM disturbances, victims, coupling path. Incompatibility problems and hierarchy of responsibilities.2. Coupling Modes : Galvanic, inductive, capacitive, radiation. Calculation methods. Definition of and methods of measuring and calculating transfer impedance.3. Low Frequency coupling models : Inductive and capacitive coupling. Equivalent coupling circuit. Determination of mutual capacitance and inductance. Methods for reducing interferences. Shielded and twisted cables4. Transmission line coupling models : Transmission line parameters. Source term representation. Time-domain and frequency-domain solution of coupling equations. Coupling to shielded cables.5. Electrosatic discharge : Causes, effects and protection methods.6. EMC in electronic circuits : Grounding. Radiation of digital circuits. Protective measures7. Shielding : Perfect shield. Field penetration. Shielding effectiveness. Shielding materials. Static field shielding. Shielding continuity. Apertures.8. EMC in telecommunications. Biological effects of electromagnetic fields. 9. Lightning electromagnetic effects : Lightning phenomena. Different categories of lightning discharge. Cloud-to-ground lightning discharge. Direct and indirect effects of lightning. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Electromagnetics I and II Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Identify and analyze sources of electromagnetic disturbancesIdentify the method of analysis of an EMC problemBe capable of analyzing electromagnetic interference problemsUnderstand basic mitigating techniques in EMCUnderstand shielding mechanisms and electromagnetic coupling Assessment methods During the semester"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-606", "name": "Scaling in MEMS", "description": "This doctoral class covers the scaling of MEMS devices, including mechanical, thermal, electrostatic, electromagnetic, and microfluidic aspects. Content Introduction to scaling laws: scaling of classical mechanical systems, scaling of classical electrical systems, breakdown in scaling, quantum breakdown. Thermal effects: conduction, convection, dynamics, breakdown, thermal micro-actuators, microreactors. Mechanical devices: mass-spring model, mechanical noise, squeeze film effects. Electrical devices: electrostatic micro-actuators, electrostatic breakdown, tunnel sensors, coils and inductors, electromagnetic micro-actuators, magnetostriction, magnetic beads. Microfluidics: liquid flow, gas flow, diffusion-mixing, surface tension, entropy trapping. Electrokinetics: dielectrophresis, EHD and MHD pumps, electrowetting, electroosmosis, capillary electrophoresis. \u00a0 Keywords Scaling laws, thermal micro-actuators, electromagnetic micro-actuators, microfluidics, electrokinetics"}
{"courseId": "HUM-483", "name": "Part 4 : Research project in Area and Cultural Studies", "description": "Students write an individual minor thesis on a subject of their choice related to the program and potentially to their academic field. Regular tutoring sessions and workshops contribute to the further development of research, writing and communication skills. Content The fourth and last part of\u00a0the Minor in Area and Cultural Studies is held at EPFL during the fall semester.\u00a0The course is designed to equip students with the tools to write a minor thesis. Individual coaching and thematic workshops will guide students throughout the development of a research proposal, the structuring of the arguments and the writing of the thesis. Keywords minor thesis, individual project,\u00a0workshops,\u00a0methodology, research and writing skills, critical thinking Learning Prerequisites Required courses HUM-482 (exam passed successfully) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Develop and communicate effectively a research proposalProduce a minor thesis Teaching methods Lectures Workshops Individual tutoring Expected student activities Reading of material Active participation in lectures and workshops Writing of a minor thesis Assessment methods 90% Final research project (minor thesis) 10% Presentation at a workshop Supervision Office hours Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "ENG-618", "name": "Biomass conversion", "description": "The learning outcomes are to get to know the biomass ressources and its characteristics; study of biomass conversion pathways and study of process flow-sheets; establish the flow diagram of an industrial process with biomass as feedstock and calculate the corresponding mass and energy balances; etc Content Biomass classification and characterization aspects; Availability and potential of bioenergy in local and global scale; Biomass conversion pathways - current technology available and R&D status; Biological pathways - Thermochemical pathways Main unit operations related with biomass conversion and biofuels production; Design of industrial processes with biomass as feedstock; Process integration applied to biomass conversion processes; Thermo - economic analysis of biomass conversion processes; Environmental impacts and life cycle analysis of biomass conversion processes; Principle of biorefineries Application to one process case study. Note Maximum number of participants : 20 Keywords Biomass, biofuel, energy conversion, process design Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Thermodynamics, heat and mass transfer, unit operation, process design, process integration"}
{"courseId": "ENV-500", "name": "Solid waste engineering", "description": "The book \"Solid Waste Engineering - A Global Perspective\" is the basis for this course. This textbook is an excellent introduction to the field of Solid Waste Engineering and gives insight into relevant solid waste treatment technologies and practices. Content With the third edition of Solid Waste Engineering, the authors have decided to expand this college textbook to focus on the worldwide problem of solid waste management. This change is illustrated by the addition of 'A Global Perspective' to the title. Given that we are currently using our natural resources at an unsustainable rate, polluting our ocean and land with a variety of waste products and altering our atmosphere with gases that are causing further global warming, now is the time to educate future engineers with knowledge and tools to address these worldwide problems. The course is following the logic structure and the chapters of the book. The third edition has been rearranged to follow the hierarchy of solid waste management, reduce, reuse, recycle and recovery. Thus students will first learn about integrated waste management strategies, an expertise which will support the future engineer to take measures for pollution prevention as well as for resources conservation. In chapter 2 the students are introduced to municipal solid waste characteristics, including the identification of different waste components and materials. Component specific information is needed for recovery, separation and recycling of waste materials. The relevance of chemical, physical and mechanical properties are discussed in more detail as a basis for the chapters which follow. These properties are most helpful in order to identify potentially meaningful recycling pathways, as well as to decide about possible technological separation and purification options. The next chapter is dedicated to the collection of municipal solid waste, a key, but many times overlooked, component of integrated waste management. Following collection is mechanical processing, in most cases the necessary first step to the recycling and recovery of municipal solid waste. The students will then study mechanical, biological, and thermal processes. For each of these topics the authors have dedicated a separate chapter which will introduce the students to the basic principles of these separate disciplines in the context of waste management. Since not all waste streams can be recovered, students move on to residue management by combustion and landfilling. Finally students are exposed to the current issues in solid waste management and the principles of integrated and sustainable solid waste management. In a few cases the lectures at EPFL and the home reading will be complemented with field visits to waste treatment facilities. Keywords Waste Technologies, Recycling, Recovery, Secondary Resources, Mechanical Treatment, Thermal Treatment, Co-treatment, Landfilling, Residues, Stabilization, Heavy Metals, Biomass, Bioenergy, Technical Ordinance on Waste, Material and Elemental Flow Analysis Learning Prerequisites Required courses No specific course is required. For students without any chemistry background the class can be mastered but will be challenging. Recommended courses Environmental chemistry Analyse des polluants dans l'environnement Informatique pour l'ing\u00e9nieur Numerical analysis Microbiologie pour l'ing\u00e9nieur Communication pour l'ing\u00e9nieur \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Characterize wastesAssess / Evaluate waste treatment pathwaysEstimate flows and quantities of waste and materialsJustify the choice of different waste treatment optionsPerform simple calculations to determine relevant parameters and process efficienciesTake into consideration measures for resources conservation and pollution prevention Transversal skills Respect relevant legal guidelines and ethical codes for the profession.Take account of the social and human dimensions of the engineering profession.Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingMake an oral presentation.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods The book \"Solid Waste Engineering\" is the basis for the course content which will be complemented with content from other sources (see \"further literature\" given below). Excursions and field visits (35%) will play a central role in studying and understanding process technologies.\u00a0 If possible the time of the visit will be set to best match with the learning content during the course. However, this is not always possible. Excursions and visits will take place according to the availability of the companies and experts. Due to the excursions less time for classic ex cathedra teaching is available and the amount of reading at home will be substantial. The students will be involved in further developing the content of the book Solid Waste Engineering. A focus will be on the improvement of existing and the suggestion of new exercises. This work will be performed in form of a group work. It will be presented to the class in form of an oral presentation and a written report. Presentations by the students (20%) will be integrated in the lecture time. The time for exercises will be used in a flexible way for own work, teamwork, and discussions. Normally every afternoon is representing a new and independent learning bloc related to a particular field or aspect of waste management or treatment technology (see content above). The course is taking place in the afternoon 2-5pm, however, some field excursions may take longer and at least for 1 excursion the travel to the field requires to leaving EPFL already at 1pm. The amount of field excursions at which a student is allowed to participate may be reduced in case the class is taken by more than 24 students. The time would be compensated by additional homework. Students who can participate in all joint activities and are ready to invest substantially in homework will appreciate this course. Expected student activities - Presence in the class and participation in discussions. - Participation at excursion(s). - Performing substantial reading and other work at home (the working load of 120h is high and corresponds to about a working day/week. This is including the lectures and excursions). Assessment methods 60% 4 short tests during the semester (only the 3 best marks will be considered). The examination dates will be announced at least 3 weeks ahead. The participation at 3 tests is mandatory. 20% Oral presentation. Design of an exercise which will be prepared and presented in form of a group work (date will be fixed two weeks ahead of the presentation) 20% Exercises and solutions which are ready to be enclosed in a future version of Solid Waste Engineering. This report is due one month after the oral presentation. Each student presents an own version of the exercise developed in the group. Supervision Others - Google Documents - Moodle Resources Bibliography Course book: William A. Worrell & P. Aarne Vesilind & Christian Ludwig (2017) Solid Waste Engineering, 3rd edition. CENGAGE Learning (also available as eBook) Further reading: Christian Ludwig & Stefanie Hellweg & Samuel Stucki (2003): Municipal Solid Waste Management. SPRINGER-VERLAG BERLINDr. Martin Lemann (1997): Fundamentals of Waste Technology, 1st English Edition. C. HERRMANN CONSULTING Peter Baccini & Paul H. Brunner (1991): Metabolism of the Anthroposphere. SPRINGER-VERLAG BERLIN or Peter Baccini & Paul H. Brunner (2012): Metabolism of the Anthroposphere. The MIT PressWerner Stumm, ETHZ (1992): Chemistry of the Solid-Water Interface. JOHN WILEY & SONS, INC. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Fundamentals of Waste Technology / LemannChemistry of the Solid-Water Interface / StummSolid waste engineering /WorrellMunicipal Solid Waste Management / LudwigMetabolism of the Anthroposphere / Baccini Notes/Handbook Information which is not given in the book \"Solid Waste Engineering\" will be available as electronic copies via moodle. Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/enrol/index.php?id=304"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-553", "name": "Haptic human robot interfaces", "description": "This course teaches basic knowledge on haptic devices, force feedback and mechanical man-machine interfaces. Lectures are about 30 %, the rest is hands-on practical work with the \"haptic paddle\", a complete mechanical device with full laptop control interface. Realization of project in groups of 2. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design a haptic interface for robot, rehabilitation, prothesis, exoskeletonRealize a haptic interface for robot, rehabilitation, prothesis, exoskeletonAnalyze a haptic interface for robot, rehabilitation, prothesis, exoskeletonAssess / Evaluate a haptic interface for robot, rehabilitation, prothesis, exoskeletonPropose a haptic interface for robot, rehabilitation, prothesis, exoskeletonDefend the proposed solutionExplain the purpose and function of a haptic interface Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Write a scientific or technical report.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art.Make an oral presentation.Summarize an article or a technical report."}
{"courseId": "COM-421", "name": "Statistical neurosciences", "description": "In neuroscience, new measurement techniques have permitted to acquire a wealth of experimental data, both scientific and commercial. This class introduces the student to a variety of statistical tools, tailored to the special case of neural data. Students will work with various real data sets. Content Examples of the latter include neuromarketing and the control of computer machinery via brain signals. This opens the door for large-scale statistical approaches. The class introduces the student to a variety of statistical tools , tailored to the special case of neural data. An integral part of the class is for the student to work with real data, choosing from a number of data sets and applying the techniques studied in class. Tuning Curves and Receptive Fields (spatio-temporal and spectro-temporal) (5 weeks) Statistical Models, Gaussian Process Factor Analysis (2 weeks) Information-theoretic Techniques (3 weeks) Network Science (2 weeks) \u00a0 Keywords Neuroscience, Statistics, Regression, Entropy, Information Theory, Information Measures, Graphical Models Learning Prerequisites Required courses The class assumes a basic understanding of probability: coin tossing and the standard Gaussian (normal) distribution. The class also assumes a basic understanding of linear algebra: vectors, matrices, eigenvalues, eigenvectors. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze neuroscience dataArgue in a precise statistical way about neuroscience dataInterpret neuroscience dataJustify conclusions about neuroscience data Teaching methods Ex cathedra exercises Assessment methods 4 homework sets 20%, midterm exam 30% and Matlab project 50% Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "COM-506", "name": "Student seminar: security protocols and applications", "description": "This seminar introduces the participants to the current trends, problems, and methods in the area of communication security. Content We will look at today's most popular security protocols and new kinds of protocols, techniques, and problems that will play an emerging role in the future. Also, the seminar will cover methods to model and analyze such security protocols. This course will be held as a seminar, in which the students actively participate. The talks will be assigned in the first meeting to teams of students, and each team will have to give a 45 minutes talk, react to other students' questions, and write a 3-4 pages summary of their talk. Keywords network security, security protocols, cryptography Learning Prerequisites Required courses Network security (COM-301) Cryptography and security (COM-401) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Synthesize some existing work on a security protocolAnalyze a security protocolPresent a lecture Transversal skills Make an oral presentation.Summarize an article or a technical report. Expected student activities prepare a lecture (presentation and a 4-page report) present the lecture attend to others' lectures and grade them do the final exam Assessment methods lecture and attendance to others' lectures\u00a0 (50%) final exam (50%) Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Others Lecturers and assistants are available upon appointment."}
{"courseId": "PHYS-438", "name": "Fundamentals of biomedical imaging", "description": "The goal of this course is to illustrate how modern principles of basic science approaches are integrated into the major biomedical imaging modalities of importance to biology and medicine, with an emphasis on those of interest to in vivo. Content 1. Introduction to the course, importance and essential elements of bioimaging - lab visit of CIBM 2. Ultrasound imaging; ionizing radiation and its generation3. X-ray imaging - when the photon bumps into living tissue, radioprotection primer4. Computed tomography - From projection to image5. Emission tomography - what are tracers and how to \"trace\" them in your body, x-ray detection, scintillation principle6. Positron emission tomography (PET) - imaging anti-matter annihilation 7. Tracer kinetics - modeling of imaging data 8. Introduction to biological magnetic resonance (MR) - Boltzmann distribution, from spins to magnetization9. Excitation of spins, Relaxation, the Basis of MR contrast (The Bloch Equations)10. MR spectroscopy: In vivo Biochemistry, without chemistry ...11. From Fourier to image: Principles of MR image formation, k-space - echo formation12. Basic MRI contrast mechanisms, BOLD fMRI, contrast agents13. Spin gymnastics: Imaging Einstein's random walk - fiber tracking. Overview of imaging modalities treated in this course Keywords Ultrasound MRI PET SPECT CT Radioprotection Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses General Physics I-III Important concepts to start the course Fourier transformation Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Deduce which imaging technique is appropriate for a given situation.Describe their fundamental promises and limitationsDifferentiate the imaging modalities covered in the course. Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Manage priorities. Teaching methods Ex cathedra with experimental demos. Expected student activities strong participation in course and exercices. Assessment methods a written exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "MGT-431", "name": "Information : strategy & economics", "description": "The course is an introduction to information economics and its strategic ramifications. The main objectives are to use economic theory to understand strategic interactions in the presence of uncertainty, estimate the value of information, and analyze competitive strategy in an information economy. Content Readings and cases are used to discuss the following topics:\u00a01. Competition and Market Power2. Product Differentiation3. Pricing Methods4. Externalities and System Effects5. Moral Hazard and Incentives6. Markets and Intermediaries7. Imperfect Competition: Search Markets8. Auctions and Bargaining9. Prediction Markets10. Special Topics Keywords Asymmetric information, market imperfections, mechanism design Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Principles of Microeconomics (MGT-454) or equivalent course Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Recognize strategic significance of informational asymmetriesRepresent strategic interactions in simple economic modelsAnalyze market imperfectionsConstruct business models for market intermediariesOptimize pricing for differentiated productsCreate economic mechanismsTranspose concepts to concrete application (project) Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsCollect data.Make an oral presentation.Write a scientific or technical report. Assessment methods Continuous assessment combining: 20% Homework (problem sets)40% Team project30% Written exam (midterm)10% Class participation"}
{"courseId": "CS-489", "name": "Personal interaction studio", "description": "As we move towards a design economy, the success of new products, systems and services depend increasingly on the excellence of personal experience. This course introduces students to the notion and practice of experience and interaction design following a hands-on, studio-based approach. Content STUDIO BRIEF : THE FUTURE OF MAPSThe map itself has emerged as one of the most ubiquitous interactive objects of our digital mobile age. It plays a significant role in our contemporary understanding of information (abstract data and physical spaces). This term, the studio aims to reinterpret the map as a digital, live, interactive artifact. The goal is to create meaningful interactive datadriven maps as both a digital visualization interface, as well as, in the form of a physically sited exhibition. CONTENTThe course consists of a non-linear/iterative process of `hackathon-like' and 'creative-coding' workflow. The course will contain a series of iterative design props ' `problem maps', `value maps', `data maps' and `future maps' ' as an apparatus to construct a network of understandings, and create meaningful user experiences for a final design proposal/product. I. Problem Maps1. Precedents survey and analysis2. Intuitive approach to problematizing design3. Generating opportunities for design interventions II. Value Maps1. Identifying and mapping values (economic/social/cultural) to design interventions2. Analysis of identified value hierarchies with targeted market personas III. Data Maps1. Data source availability (proprietary/non-proprietary)2. Data service availability3. Data mining and logging methods IV. Future Maps1. Vision Proposal2. Concept Design3. Schematic Design of components/architectures4. Rapid Prototyping with creative coding tools and workflows5. Design Optioneering with evaluation and testing6. Design Marketing with scenarios and storyboards7. Scaling for different forms of realization (esp. physically sited exhibition) Keywords User Experience (UX) Design, Design Thinking, Creative Coding, Hackathon, Open Source, Optioneering, Iterative Prototyping Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bachelor in Computer Science or equivalent Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Identify issues of experience design in relation to an actual design projectPerform rigorous analysis of the problem space and map the design opportunities (problem seeking, value proposition and data inventories)Develop alternative design concepts for future artifacts (in 2016: live maps)Translate design concepts into meaningful experiences through iterative prototyping at appropriate scales and levels of granularity (creative coding)Create convincing arguments for the design propositions and persuasive visual and tangible evidence Teaching methods Hackathon, Creative coding, Lectures, Design reviews, Presentations, Group projects Expected student activities Hackathon, Group discussion, Case studies, Design Reviews, Pin-Up, Desk Crits Assessment methods Grading will be based upon the quality of the projects in the preliminary stages (10% problem maps, 10% value maps, 10% data maps), intermediary reviews (20% future maps) and in the final review (50%). Final projects will be reviewed and assessed based on their conceptual strength, the coherence of their translation into prototypes, their narrative clarity and experiential power, and the persuasiveness of their communication, both orally and through the presented artifacts. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No"}
{"courseId": "CH-438", "name": "Total synthesis of natural products", "description": "Complex polycyclic natural products are chosen to illustrate the evolution of the state-of-the-art of the field, the interplay between strategy and new reactions as well as the importance of implementing multi-bond forming processes in a synthesis. Content Retro-synthesis and synthesis of different classes of natural products important for their structure and/or bioactivity. Keywords Retro-synthetic analysis,\u00a0Synergism between strategy and new reactions,\u00a0Domino reactions, multicomponent reactions,\u00a0Oxidative coupling,\u00a0Pattern Recognition,\u00a0Hidden Symmetry, C-H Functionalization,\u00a0Asymmetric organocatalysis \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses General knowledge of organic reactions. Basic knowledge of retro-syntheis. EPFL lectures fonctions et r\u00e9actions organiques I and II, synth\u00e8se asym\u00e9trique, target synthesis, structure and reactivity or equivalent courses. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Draw reaction mechanismAnalyze synthetic routeElaborate synthetic schemeDesign synthetic strategy Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "ME-344", "name": "Incompressible fluid mechanics", "description": "Basic lecture in incompressible fluid mechanics Content Characteristic quantities of an incompressible flow, hydrostatic, viscous stress, dimensional analysis, Navier-Stoke equations, conservation of mass and momentum in integral and differential form, trajectories and streamlines, Bernoulli's equation, lift and drag of a solid body, theory of reduced scale models, inviscid flows, potential flows, unsteady flows, added mass, vorticity dynamics, introduction to boundary layer concept and of turbulence. Keywords Incompressible flows, Navier-Stokes equation, lift, drag Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Mechanics of continuous mediaFluid flow Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Master the concepts of mass, energy, and momentum balance, E1Formulate the basic flow equations, such as the Navier - Stokes equations , AH17Describe simplified governing equations, such as the Bernoulli or potential equations, their domain of validity and apply them in appropriate situations , AH19Describe flo w in simple geometries, such as over a flat plate, in a tube, or around a sphere of airfoil , AH11Link flow behaviour with non - dimensional pa rameters (e.g. Reynolds and Mach numbers) , AH2Understand similarity laws and their use for dimensioning an exper imental testbed , AH 33Resolve analytically or numerically the potential flow around an airfoil , AH 25Describe the physical differences between laminar and turbulent flows , AH4 Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals. Teaching methods Lectures and sessions of exercises\u00a0 Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-310", "name": "Solid state physics II", "description": "This course gives an introduction into Solid State Physics (crystal structure of materials, electronic and magnetic properties, thermal and electronic transport). The course material is at the level of Ashcroft & Mermin and is addressed to the 3rd year students in Physics. Content Electrons in periodic potential (cont.):\u00a0tight-binding approximation, Fermi surfaces and band structures of selected elements. \u00a0 Dynamics of electrons in periodic potential:\u00a0semiclassical model, electrical conductivity, concept of hole charge carriers and effective mass, dynamics in presence of magnetic field. \u00a0 Lattice vibrations and thermal properties: vibrational modes within harmonic approximation, phonons, specific heat, anharmonic effects, thermal expansion, heat conductivity. \u00a0 Semiconductors:\u00a0general properties and band structures, impurities, intrinsic and doped semiconductors, concept of hole charge carriers and effective mass, optical adsorption and excitons, p-n junctions, light-emitting diods, photovoltaic cells, transistors, elements of quantum confinement and quantum transport. \u00a0 Magnetism:\u00a0magnetic susceptibility, magnetic Hamiltonian of an isolated ion, ferromagnetism and antiferromagnetism, Heisenberg exchange interaction, mean-field theory, itinerant magnetism, magnetocrystalline anisotropy, magnetic domains and domain walls. \u00a0 Superconductivity:\u00a0history of discovery and classification, electric, magnetic and thermal phenomenology, London theory, elements of the BCS theory. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Solid State Physics I Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe termal and vibrational properties of solidsCompute band structures using the tight-binding approximationCompute trajectories in real and reciprocal spaceCharacterize magnetismCharacterize intrinsic and doped semiconductorsDescribe superconductivity Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods Ex cathedra and exercises in class Assessment methods Written exam in English or French Resources Bibliography Lecture notes available on the Moodle webpage \u00a0 '\u00a0N.W. Ashcroft and N.D. Mermin, Solid State Physics, Holt Saunders Int. Ed. 1976, Physique des Solides, EDP-Sciences 2002 \u00a0 ' Ch. Kittel, Physique de l'\u00e9tat solide, Dunod 2005 Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Solid State Physics / Ashcroft N.W., Mermin N.D.Physique de l'\u00e9tat solide : cours et probl\u00e8mes / Kittel Ch. Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=14394"}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-704", "name": "Fracture Mechanics and Fatigue of Structures", "description": "Determination of stress intensity factors and application of fracture mechanics to structures made of different materials.Ability to apply fracture mechanics to predict brittle fracture compute fatigue life of structural elements.Understanding of the influencing parameters methods to determine them Content Fracture micromechanisms in steels, Griffith and Irwin theories, concept of stress intensity factor, fracture toughness and its determination - Plated steel structures : Fatigue strength of welded steel elements, size effect, residual stresses influence, application of fracture mechanics to fatigue - Tubular steel structures : Hot spot stress method for fatigue design, welded vs cast steel joints - Structural glass: Subcritical crack growth, predicting time to failure - Reinforced concrete structures : Fracture mechanics, fracture of concrete, size effect, brittle failure, fatigue of reinforced concrete elements, evaluation of fatigue safety of bridge decks, fracture due to dynamic effects. - R-UHPFRC structures: fracture and fatigue properties of Ultra-High Performance Fiber Reinforced Composites, structural implications, design provisions. Keywords Fracture mechanics, fatigue, steel structures, concrete structures, structural safety"}
{"courseId": "ENV-720", "name": "HydroPower and Dams: Benefits and Concerns", "description": "Knowing the benefits and concerns of large hydraulic schemes and infrastructures for use of water resources with focus on hydropower plants and dams Analyzing the challenges of designers and owners of such large hydraulic schemes in view of environmental, social and economical impact Content Main benefits of hydraulic schemes and dams as power production (electricity) and grid management , flood protection, irrigation, drinking water supply, navigation, leisure activities, fish production\u00a0 and creation of new biotopes Importance of renewable\u00a0 and green energy, gain factors of different production types and sustainable development,\u00a0 previsions of energy\u00a0 consummation, politics and need of water, chances and dangers of liberalization of power markets Concerns about environmental, social and economical impacts and its consideration in the early phases of the project definition Evaluation and decision procedures in order to optimize the positive effects and to minimize the negative effects of projects Methods and strategies for negotiation with parties concerned by the projects and NGO's; establishment of partnership between all actors of a project; public awareness and information strategies Alternatives for large hydropower schemes (small and mini hydro, alternatives energies, a.s.o.) Note Keywords Hydropower, dams, environmental and social impacts, renouvable energy, benefits and concerns Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bases in hydraulics and hydraulic schemes Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Identify the benefits and concern s of large hydraulic schemes and infrastructures for use of water resourcesAnalyze the challenges of designers and owners of such large hydraulic schemes in view of environmental, social and economical impactAssess / Evaluate the key factors of complex dam and reservoir projectsApply a global and integrated qualitative approach by the help of network thinking for treatment of complex problemsAnalyze the arguments of NOG'sIdentify measures which improve the acceptance of hydropower and dam projects Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Negotiate effectively within the group.Take responsibility for environmental impacts of her/ his actions and decisions.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingAccess and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Assessment methods Evaluation of term paper established as a group work"}
{"courseId": "COM-401", "name": "Cryptography and security", "description": "This course introduces the basics of cryptography. We review several types of cryptographic primitives, when it is safe to use them and how to select the appropriate security parameters. We detail how they work and sketch how they can be implemented. Content Ancient cryptography: Vigen\u00e8re, Enigma, Vernam cipher, Shannon theory Diffie-Hellman cryptography: algebra, Diffie-Hellman, ElGamal RSA cryptography: number theory, RSA, factoring Elliptic curve cryptography: elliptic curves over a finite field, ECDH, ECIES Symmetric encryption: block ciphers, stream ciphers, exhaustive search Integrity and authentication: hashing, MAC, birthday paradox Applications to symmetric cryptography: mobile telephony, Bluetooth, WiFi Public-key cryptography: cryptosystem, digital signature Trust establishment: secure communication, trust setups Case studies: Bluetooth, TLS, SSH, PGP, biometric passport Keywords cryptography, encryption, secure communication Learning Prerequisites Required courses Algebra (MATH-310) Probability and statistics (MATH-310) Algorithms (CS-250) Recommended courses Network security (COM-301) Important concepts to start the course Mathematical reasoning Probabilities Algebra, arithmetics Algorithmics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose the appropriate cryptographic primitive in a security infrastructureJudge the strength of existing standardsAssess / Evaluate the security based on key lengthImplement algorithms manipulating big numbers and use number theoryUse algebra and probability theory to analyze cryptographic algorithmsIdentify the techniques to secure the communication and establish trust Teaching methods ex-cathedra Expected student activities active participation during the course take notes during the course do the exercises during the exercise sessions complete the regular tests and homework read the material from the course self-train using the provided material do the midterm exam and final exam Assessment methods Mandatory continuous evaluation: homework (30%) regular graded tests (30%) midterm exam (40%) Final exam averaged (same weight) with the contiuous evaluation, but with final grade between final_exam-1 and final_exam 1. Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Others Lecturers and assistants are available upon appointment. Resources Bibliography Communication security: an introduction to cryptography. Serge Vaudenay. Springer 2004. A computational introduction to number theory and algebra. Victor Shoup. Cambridge University Press 2005. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que A computational introduction to number theory and algebra / ShoupCommunication security / Vaudenay Websites http://lasec.epfl.ch/teaching.shtml"}
{"courseId": "BIO-480", "name": "Neurosciences I : molecular neuroscience and neurodegeneration", "description": "The goal of the course is to guide students through the essential aspects of molecular neuroscience and neurodegenerative diseases. The student will gain the ability to dissect the molecular basis of disease in the nervous system in order to begin to understand and identify therapeutic strategies. Content Unique biology of neurons Molecular neuropharmacology Unique biology of glial cells Generation, survival and integration of nerve cells Synapse formation, regeneration and plasticity Anatomical and functional organization of the brain Alzheimer's disease Parkinson's disease Motor neuron diseases Prion diseases Polyglutamine expansion diseases Protein aggregation in neurodegenerative disease Animal models of disease and translational neuroscience. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bachelor level in Life Sciences. Important concepts to start the course Understanding of molecular and cellular biology. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Define key concepts in neurodegenerative diseasesAssess / Evaluate novel therapeutic strategies for neurodegenerative diseasesCompare the unique properties of neuronal and glial cellsExplain the processes of brain developmentDefine the clinical, genetic and neuropathological characteristics of distinct neurodegenerative diseasesHypothesize therapeutic strategies for treating brain diseasesDescribe the function of genes associated with neurodegenerative diseasesDesign experiments to evaluate genetic mutations associated with neurodegenerative diseases Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Summarize an article or a technical report. Teaching methods Formal lectures and exercises. Expected student activities Group exercises. Assessment methods Written exam. 3 hours duration. Will contain short essay-style questions. Students will answer 6 questions (approx. 6 x 30 min each) chosen from a list of 12 questions."}
{"courseId": "ENV-722", "name": "Microbial diversity", "description": "Microbes are ubiquitous in the environment and in animal hosts but their activity and role are often not well known. This course presents the latest scientific insights into microbial phylogenetic and functional diversity and its impact on natural and engineered environments and on eukaryotic hosts. Content All such questions will be discussed and studied in this tutorial on the basis of the most recent literature, with a strong focus on specific molecular methods to unravel complex microbial communities. We will likely chose four different microbial ecosystems: human microbiome (mostly intestinal tract), insect gut, wastewater treatment plant and anaerobic digesters or the deep ocean. The course will be structured as a meeting in which each student and the instructor will be prepared to discuss the same publication for 2 hours. Keywords microbial diversity, functional diversity, metabolic diversity, microbial ecology, DNA-based methods, RNA-based methods,"}
{"courseId": "BIO-483", "name": "Neurosciences III : behavioral and cognitive neuroscience", "description": "The goal is to guide students into the essential topics of Behavioral and Cognitive Neuroscience. The challenge for the student in this course is to integrate the diverse knowledge acquired from those levels of analysis into a more or less coherent understanding of brain structure and function. Content Pathways into the visual brain Perception and encoding Attention and selective perception Perception and consciousness Understanding statistics Stress and emotion Learning and memory Neurobiological mechanisms of memory Emotional influences on cognitive functions Psychiatric disorders Structural and functional cortical neuroanatomy Somatosensory perception and parietal cortex in human and non-human primates Multisensory perception and parietal and premotor cortex in human and non-human primates Perception and representation of visual space in the right hemisphere Selected neurological disorders and human brain imaging Bodily self-consciousness \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Neuroscience I and II Recommended courses Bachelor Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Identify underlying neurobiological mechanisms that relate to essential behavioral and cognitive processesDescribe the neurobiological mechanisms that get disrupted in certain brain and mind pathologiesDiscuss the main methods used in humans and animals to measure brain function during performance of behavioral and cognitive tasksUnderstanding the basic neurophysiology of visionUnderstanding the basic computational principles of visionUnderstanding top-down processing in visionUnderstanding the problem of consciousness Teaching methods Courses ex cathedra based on discussion forums Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "MSE-470(a)", "name": "Seminar series on advances in materials (autumn)", "description": "A series of seminars on selected current and emerging topics in Materials will be presented by experts. Content 14 seminars will take place according to the programme indicated at the following link : http://sti.epfl.ch/page-77010-fr.html Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Interpret topics of recent research in materials science and engineering Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods The course \"Seminar series\" will consist of 12-14 scientific talks per semester. Attendance of all of these talks is strongly recommended. The students are expected to take their own notes and do literature research concerning the background of the talks (presentation slides will not be distributed). Expected student activities Participation in class Bibliographic research"}
{"courseId": "MSE-621", "name": "Characterization Methods in Materials Science", "description": "A survey on surface characterization (XPS, Auger, RBS, SIMS), advanced microscopy (SEM, TEM), bulk chemical analysis (EDX, EELS, atom-probe), optical and X-ray, as well as physical, thermal, and mechanical characterization techniques. Audience: students with other-than-materials science background. Content LECTURES:How to find, read and comment a scientific paper: what is the message, the motivation, the methods used ?How to use web of science /scopus etc.\u00a0 Description of modern experimental techniques: what physical principle is it based on, what kind of information can be gained what type of samples, preparation what are the method's limits, sensitivity, resolution typical time, costs etc.\u00a0Structural characterization methods: X-ray, electron diffraction, SEM, TEMChemical characterization: EDX, EELSTomographic methods (X-ray, Electron microscopy, atom-probe)Surface analysis: Auger, XPS, RBS, SIMSElectrical properties: measurement of conductivity and mobility, photocurrent spectroscopythermalOptical techniques: micro/macro photoluminescence, photolumnescence excitation spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopyScanning probe techniques.AFM, STM, MFM, SNOMMechanical and thermal properties: Elastic resonance, speed of sound, Dilatometry, DSC, fracture energy, Laser flash, steady state conductivity \u00a0RECITATION/EXERCISES:Presentation of a scientific paper: summarizing the findings, are the methods used adequate, comment on the results, what is the context, rating (quality, importance). Answering questions. Keywords Characterization methods"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-561", "name": "Biomicroscopy I", "description": "Introduction to geometrical and wave optics for understanding the functioning of optical microscopes and their advantages and limitations. How to choose the type of microscope and the imaging method that are best suited for investigating the biological sample of interest? Content Geometrical and matrix (ABCD) optics, wave and Fourier optics, point-spread function (PSF), resolution and contrast, microscope elements (objectivs, eyepiece, filters, illuminations, detectors), confocal microscopy, fluorescence. Keywords Optical microscopy, fluorescence, wide field microscopy, confocal microscopy. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Analysis IV, Linear algebra, General physics III/IV. Important concepts to start the course Basic matrix calculations, Fourier transformation, electromagnetic waves, refraction and reflection. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Sketch basic optical systems.Sketch wide field and confocal microscopes.Estimate the resolution of imaging systems.Propose a suitable microscopy configuration for imaging a sample.Characterize the elements of a microscope. Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods Lecturing with exercises. Expected student activities Following the lecturing and solving the exercises regularly is necessary for mastering the course contents. The solutions of the exercises are distributed at the next lecture. The student is invited to find his/her own solutions and to discuss them with the assistants. Assessment methods Continuous evaluation with two intermediate exams: duration 1h, the mean grade will constitute the final grade. Support: manuscript of 2 sheets A4 (recto-verso). No calculators. Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes Others Possible to take dates. Resources Bibliography Geometrical and matrix optics: Jos\u00e9-Philippe P\u00e9rez, Optique: fondements et applications (2004). Eugene Hecht, Optics (2002). Miles V. Klein and Thomas E. Furtak, Optics (1986). Wave optics: Max Born and Emil Wolf, Principles of optics: electromagnetic theory of propagation, interference and diffraction of light (1980). Confocal microscopy: Min Gu, Principles of three-dimensional imaging in confocal microscopes (1996). Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Optics / HechtOptics / HechtOptique : fondements et applications / P\u00e9rezOptics / HechtOptics / KleinPrinciples of optics: electromagnetic theory of propagation, interference and diffraction of light / BornPrinciples of three-dimensional imaging in confocal microscopes / Gu Notes/Handbook Script covering geometrical and matrix optics, Fourier optics, microscopy and fluorescence. Script chapters and course slides are published on Moodle. Websites http://www.olympusmicro.com/http://zeiss-campus.magnet.fsu.edu/tutorials/index.html Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/enrol/index.php?id=1341"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-332", "name": "Computational physics III", "description": "This course teaches the students practical skills needed for solving modern physics problems by means of computation. A number of examples illustrate the utility of numerical computations in various domains of physics. Content Fourier series and transforms Introduction to the Fourier series and transforms and their application. Mathematical properties: convergence, convolution, correlation, Gibbs phenomenon and the Wiener-Khinchin theorem. Fourier transform on discrete sampled data: aliasing and sampling theorem. Discrete Fourier transform (DFT) and fast Fourier transform (FFT). Applications: spectral analysis, filters. Fourier transforms in higher dimensionality. \u00a0 Linear systems Introduction and examples. Gauss-Jordan elimination, LU factorization. Iterative refinement: tridiagonal and band diagonal systems. Iterative methods and preconditioning: Jacobi, Richards and gradient methods. Conjugate gradient method. Iterative vs direct methods. \u00a0 Matrix manipulation and eigenvalues problems Introduction and examples. Properties and decomposition. Poweriteration. QR decomposition and iterative procedure. Singular value decomposition (SVD). Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses 1st and 2nd years numerical physics courses Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose the most suitable algorithm for solving given problemIntegrate algorithms in computer codes and evaluate their performanceSolve actual physics problems using numerical tools Teaching methods Ex cathedra presentations, exercises and work under supervision Assessment methods 3 reports during the semester"}
{"courseId": "EE-490(e)", "name": "Lab in microwaves", "description": "This lab teaches the major measurement techniques used in microwaves Content the slotted line microwave couplers time domain reflectometry antenna measurement spectrum anayser network analyser noise measurement Keywords microwaves, SA, VNA, slotted line, antennas Learning Prerequisites Required courses electromagnetism Recommended courses microwaves (in parallel) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Use tn lmajor measurement techniques in microwavesAnalyze resultsEstimate measurment precisionSynthesize results in a report Transversal skills Write a scientific or technical report.Collect data.Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods labs, discussions and presentations Expected student activities do the experiments synthetize the results present and discuss the results do a report Assessment methods Both the work in the lab and the reports will be assessed \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-428", "name": "Engineering geology for geo-energy", "description": "Objective is to provide an understanding of the problems in geo-energy projects. Human induced fracturing has serious consequences in projects as conventional and unconventional hydrocarbon resources exploration, deep geothermal systems, CO2 storage and deep geological disposal of radioactive waste. Content We propose the following course outline: Structural geology,\u00a0tectonics, in-situ stress, natural seismicity Methods of rock stress measurement, reliability and meaning of stress measurement, natural and excavation induced stress variation, borehole breakouts Borehole and gallery stability, rock mass discontinuities and anisotropy, role and development of pre-existing vs tunnel induced fractures, methods to characterize the excavation/borehole damage zone Application to deep geothermal systems Human induced fault reactivation, fault slip tendency, fracture propagation, induced seismicity Geological storage of CO2: well sealing integrity, caprock sealing integrity, fault sealing integrity Keywords structural geology, tectonics, natural and induced seiscimicity, stress measurements, borehole stability, hydraulic fracturing, deep geothermal systems, CO2 sequestration Learning Prerequisites Required courses Soil mechanics, Geomechanics, Rock mechanics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Construct a coherent geological model with the available data.Anticipate the rock mass and hydraulic perturbations for any subsurface projects (i.e. deep geothermal, CO2 storage, conventional and unconventional hydrocarbon resources exploration, construction of deep geological disposal for radioactive waste).Design the rock mass and hydraulic perturbations for any subsurface projects (i.e. deep geothermal, CO2 storage, conventional and unconventional hydrocarbon resources exploration, construction of deep geological disposal for radioactive waste).Use correctly the acquired data in the project for building a coherent interpretation. Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking Teaching methods Ex cathedra Slides powerpoint with the recommended reading : \"Elements of Crustal Geomechanics\" Fran\u00e7ois Henri Cornet, May 2015 Expected student activities attendance at lectures, completing exercices, reading selected scientific publications and doing a personal work Assessment methods During the semester, written control and personal work"}
{"courseId": "ChE-451", "name": "Process development I", "description": "Familiarize the students with integrated process development and industrial technologies. Content Process analysis and description Development strategies Mass and energy balances Industrial equipments Installation concepts Technical limitations Sizing of industrial equipments Energy use Introduction to steam process Design of technical equipment Economical estimations (total product & investment costs)\u00a0Optimization Influence of process modifications Risk analysis introduction Optimum choice Development program definition Use of process simulation software Scale down and scale up"}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-709", "name": "New Concretes for Structures", "description": "This course provides an in depth coverage of mechanical and physical properties of Ultra High Performance Fibre Reinforced Concretes (UHPFRC), in the framework of new cementitious composites for structures. The structural applications and environmental assessment of construction systems with UHPFR Content Basic components,binders,admixtures and adjunctions. - Rheology of fresh cementitious materials. - Bases of Fibre Reinforced Concretes. - Formulation of UHPFRC. - Hydration, heat transport, moisture transport. - Mechanics of strain hardening fibre reinforced concretes and combination with rebars. - Time dependent behaviour of UHPFRC - creep and shrinkage, response under restraint. - Applications on new and existing structures - case studies. - Ways towards conceptual design of innovative structures with UHPFRC.\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Keywords Cementitious Composites, Fibres, UHPFRC, Strain hardening, Creep, Shrinkage, Formulation, Rheology. Modelling Learning Prerequisites Required courses Basic course on Building Materials, Continuum Mechanics, Structural Mechanics, Physics and Chemistry"}
{"courseId": "ENG-366", "name": "Signals, instruments, and systems", "description": "The goal of this course is to transmit knowledge in sensing, computing, communicating, and actuating for programmable field instruments and, more generally, embedded systems. The student will be able to put in practice the knowledge acquired using concrete software and hardware tools. Content Introduction to the C language and the UNIX environment Hardware resource constraints and their impact on C programming Basic signal processing techniques Dynamic systems without and with feedback, open-loop and closed-loop control Basic linear control techniques Basic communication techniques Microcontrollers, sensors, actuators, and transceivers Hardware choices and resource management Examples of programmable, mobile field instruments\u00a0 Keywords Signal processing, embedded systems, programming, control algorithms, mobile robotics, sensors,\u00a0field instruments Learning Prerequisites Required courses Analysis I to IV (complex analysis), fundamentals in C programming\u00a0and\u00a0Matlab (or equivalent) knowledge. Recommended courses Fundamentals in probability and statistics; fundamentals in control and dynamical systems Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Estimate environmental monitoring system requirements (communication, sensing, actuation, computation)Develop software for an embedded system/instrumentAnalyze signals in time and frequency domainAnalyze C program outputsImplement C codeCompute direct and inverse Fourier TransformsAnalyze constraints and resources of an embedded system/instrumentConduct systematic experiments and system performance evaluationDesign (digital) filtersDesign control algorithms Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Write a scientific or technical report.Collect data.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods Ex-cathedra with assisted exercises, course project involving teamwork Expected student activities Attending lecture and exercises, carrying out a course project, reading hand outs (when distributed) Assessment methods Written exam with continuous control during the semester Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Resources Bibliography Lecture notes, a few\u00a0targeted papers/book chapters Websites http://disal.epfl.ch/teaching/signals_instruments_systems Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=7321"}
{"courseId": "CS-341", "name": "Introduction to computer graphics", "description": "The students study and apply fundamental algorithms for realtime rendering and geometry synthesis. They design and implement their own interactive graphics programs using the OpenGL graphics API. Content This course provides an introduction to the field of Computer Graphics with a focus on image synthesis.\u00a0We will first cover the basic mathematical concepts,\u00a0such as 2D and 3D transformations, examine the interaction of light with geometry to derive suitable shading models,\u00a0and discuss\u00a0elementary rendering algorithms, such as rasterization or visibility computations.\u00a0We will then investigate how these fundamental components are integrated in current graphics processors and\u00a0study the corresponding programming APIs, in particular OpenGL. Students will experiment with modern graphics programming and build small interactive demos in OpenGL. Complemented by some theoretical exercises, these programming tasks lead to a graphics software project, where small teams of students design and implement a complete graphics application. Keywords Pixels and images,\u00a02D and 3D transformations, perspective transformations and visibility, rasterization, interpolation and lighting,\u00a0OpenGL graphics API, shader programming, texture mapping, procedural modeling, curves and surfaces Learning Prerequisites Required courses Nothing Recommended courses Linear Algebra \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain and apply the fundamental mathematical concepts computer-based image synthesisImplement a basic rendering pipeline based on rasterization and z-buffer visibilityExplain the core functionalities of the OpenGL graphics APIDevelop simple graphics programs in OpenGL using shader programmingDesign and implement geometry synthesis methods based on procedural techniquesCoordinate a team during a software project Teaching methods Lectures, interactive demos, theory and programming exercises, programming project, project tutoring Expected student activities The student are expected to study the provided reading material and actively participate in class.\u00a0They should\u00a0prepare and resolve the exercises, prepare and carry out the programming project.\u00a0Exercises\u00a0and\u00a0project are done in groups of three students. Assessment methods Exercises and Project: 50%, Final Examination: 50% Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes Resources Bibliography A list of books will be provided at the beginning of the class Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Polygon mesh processing / Botsch Notes/Handbook Slides and online resources will be provided in class Websites http://lgg.epfl.ch/ICG"}
{"courseId": "MATH-634", "name": "Probabilistic Coupling", "description": "This course will explore the theory and application of probabilistic coupling, a powerful and broad method of proving results in mathematical probability by means of carefully constructing probability spaces to control the dependence structure of the complex stochastic system under study. Content 'Coupling' is a many-valued term in mathematical science! In a probabilist's vocabulary it means: finding out about a random system X by constructing a second random system Y on the same probability space (maybe augmented by a seasoning of extra randomness). Careful construction, choosing the right system Y, and designing the right kind of dependence between X and Y, leads to clear intuitive explanations of important facts about X, as well as enabling rather remarkable methods of exact simulation (so-called Coupling from the Past or CFTP). These lectures aim to survey ideas from coupling theory, using a pattern of beginning with an intuitive example, developing the idea of the example, and then remarking on further ramifications of the theory. \u00a0 Topic titles as follows: Coupling and (1) Monotonicity, (2) Representation, (3) Approximation, (4) Mixing; (5) A Coupling Zoo; (6) Classic CFTP; (7) Further topics in CFTP; (8) CFTP in applied probability. Keywords Brownian motion; CFTP; coupling; dominated CFTP; epidemics; Lindley representation; queues"}
{"courseId": "MATH-442", "name": "Statistical theory", "description": "The course aims to develop certain key aspects of the theory of statistics, providing a common general framework for statistical methodology. While the main emphasis will be on the mathematical aspects of statistics, an effort will be made to balance rigor and relevance to statistical practice. Content \u00a0 Stochastic convergence and its use in statistics: modes of convergence, weak law of large numbers, central limit theorem Formalization of a statistical problem : parameters, models, parametrizations, sufficiency, ancillarity, completeness Point estimation: methods of estimation, bias, variance, relative efficiency Likelihood theory: the likelihood principle, asymptotic properties, misspecification of models, the Bayesian perspective Optimality: decision theory, minimum variance unbiased estimation, Cram\u00e9r-Rao lower bound, efficiency, robustness Testing and Confidence Regions: Neyman-Pearson setup, likelihood ratio tests, UMP tests, duality with confidence intervals, confidence regions, large sample theory, goodness-of-fit testing\u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Real Analysis, Linear Algebra, Probability, Statistics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Formulate the various elements of a statistical problem rigorously.Formalize the performance of statistical procedures through probability theory.Systematize broad classes of probability models and their structural relation to inferenceConstruct efficient statistical procedures for point/interval estimation and testing in classical contexts.Derive certain exact (finite sample) properties of fundamental statistical proceduresDerive Derive certain asymptotic (large sample) properties of fundamental statistical procedures.Formulate fundamental limitations and uncertainty principles of statistical theory.Prove certain fundamental structural and optimality theorems of statistics. Teaching methods Lecture ex cathedra, exercises in class, homework Assessment methods Continued control, written exam"}
{"courseId": "MATH-342", "name": "Time series", "description": "A first course in statistical time series analysis and applications, including practical work. Content Motivation; basic ideas; stochastic processes; stationarity; trend and seasonality. Autocorrelation and related functions. Stationary linear processes: theory and applications. Spectral representation of a stationary process: theory and applications. ARIMA, SARIMA models and their use in modelling. State-space models: key ideas and applications. Prediction of stationary processes. Financial time series: stylised facts, volatility, unit roots and non-stationarity, ARCH, GARCH, stochastic volatility and related models. Multivariate time series. Long memory processes. Other topics as time permits. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Probability and Statistics Recommended courses Probability and Statistics for mathematicians. \u00a0A course in linear models would be valuable but is not an essential prerequisite. \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course The material from first courses in probability and statistics. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Recognize when a time series model is appropriate to model dependenceManipulate basic mathematical objects associated to time seriesEstimate parameters of basic time series models from dataCritique the fit of a time series model and propose alternativesFormulate time series models appropriate for empirical dataDistinguish a range of time series models and understand their propertiesAnalyze empirical data using time series models Teaching methods Ex cathedra lectures, exercises and computer practicals in the R language in the classroom and at home. \u00a0 Mini-project based on data chosen by the student.\u00a0 Assessment methods Mini-project, final exam. Supervision Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "EE-440", "name": "Photonic systems and technology", "description": "The physics of optical communication components and their applications to communication systems will be covered. The course is intended to present the operation principles of contemporary optical communication systems employing optical fibers and modern optoelectronic devices. Content Photonic sources: LEDs and laser diodes, Laser physics and operation. Characteristics of laser light, Laser technology. Spectral distribution. Coherence Modulation: Optical signal generation, Electro-optic effect, phase and intensity modulation, modulation formats, bit stream generation. Signal propagation: Propagation of a Gaussian pulse, impact of dispersion and management, impact of losses. Medium induced distortions Amplification: Doped fiber optical amplifiers, fiber Raman amplifiers, semiconductor optical amplifiers. Gain and rate equations, noise. Signal recovery: Photo detectors and photonic receivers, noise sources, sensitivity, bit error rate. Nonlinear effects: Self-phase and cross phase modulation, solitons, four wave mixing, scattering processes. Multichannel systems: WDM systems and components, OTDM. Keywords Optical communication, fiber optics, laser, optical amplification, nonlinear optics Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Electromagnetics I and II, Introduction to photonics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Identify the different sources of performance degradation on an optical linkAssess / Evaluate the limitations of an optical link based on fiber and light source parametersExplain the operating principles of various electro-optics devices such as lasers, modulators and detectorsCompare the performance of different photo-detectorsAssess / Evaluate ther performance of optical data transmission based on bit error ratesExplain the source of optical nonlinearitiesCompute power budgets, dispersion limits and rise time budgetsDerive rate equations for lasing and amplificationJustify the use of a component in an optical link depending on the application and the required performance Teaching methods Ex cathedra and integrated exercices Assessment methods Written Resources Bibliography Handouts given during the class"}
{"courseId": "MATH-401", "name": "Advanced analysis II", "description": "Getting access to the use of Banach spaces, Hilbert spaces, Fourier series, Fourier tansforms and distributions. Content Inner product spaces and Hilbert spaces L2 spaces Orthonormal sets in Hilbert spaces: Fourier coefficients, Bessel inequality and equality Periodic signals and Fourier series Fourier Transform in L1 and in L2 Distrribution spaces Tempered distributions and Fourier transform Keywords inner product spaces, Hilbert spaces, Lp spaces, orthonoral sets, Fourier coefficients, Fourier transform, distributions, tempered distributions, peridoic signals, Dirac comb, sampling of a signal Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Advanced Analysis I Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the main concepts and propositions presented in the lectureDetect the main properties (as Banach, Hilbert, norm, inner product) in examplesExploit the main propositions in concrete examplesFormalize the main tools used for signals (sampling,...)Theorize the environment in which Fourier analysis is permormed Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture and exercises in the classroom Expected student activities Understanding the mathematical language necessary for a deep understanding of signals and their transforms, of the Lebesgue spaces and the distribution spaces Assessment methods Oral exam Resources Bibliography C. Gasquet, P. Witomski: Fourier Analysis and Applications, Springer, ISBN 0-387-98485-2 W. Kammler:\u00a0A First Course in Fourier AnalysisDavid,\u00a0Online ISBN: 9780511619700 Hardback ISBN: 9780521883405 Paperback ISBN: 9780521709798 \u00a0 Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que A First Course in Fourier AnalysisDavid / Kammler Fourier Analysis and Applications / Gasquet Notes/Handbook Lecture notes: Advanced Analysis II by Hans-J\u00f6rg Ruppen (Librairie La Fontaine) Websites http://cmspc11.epfl.ch/hjrhttps://cmspc11.epfl.ch/AFNextGen"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-736", "name": "Plasma instabilities", "description": "To complete the theoretical knowledge acquired before the graduate studies. Content 1. Introduction to Magnetohydrodynamics (MHD)2. MHD Equilibrium and Instabilities in Tokamak Plasmas3. Kinetic Theory of Microinstabilities4. Introduction to Non-linear Phenomena5. Kinetic Theory of Macroscopic Instabilities"}
{"courseId": "EE-548", "name": "Audio engineering", "description": "This lecture is oriented towards the study of audio engineering, with a special focus on room acoustics applications. The learning outcomes will be the techniques for microphones and loudspeaker design, as well as room acoustics knowledge. Content I Audition The human hearing system Introduction to psychoacoustics Basics on noise control engineering II Room Acoustics Wave theory Geometrical room acoustics Statistical (Sabine) room acoustics III Transducers for audio A brief reminder on electroacoustics Electrodynamic transducers Electrostatic transducers Piezoelectric transducers IV Microphones General properties Microphones theory Microphone realization V Loudspeaker design The electrodynamic loudspeaker Loudspeaker system design (enclosures) Loudspeaker realization VI Electroacoustic absorbers Keywords Auditory system Psychoacoustics Room acoustics Microphones Loudspeakers Learning Prerequisites Required courses General physics Circuits and systems Recommended courses Electroacoustics Radiation and antennas Important concepts to start the course Electrotechnics: transfer functions, impulse response, electric system characterization, filtering, bode representation Transmission lines: wave propagation equations in 1D, circuit modeling, Kirchhoff theory Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze the auditory system from the physical viewpointthe perceptive hearing phenomena through objective measuresa room with respect to acoustic quality criteriaroom acoustics performanceSynthesize microphones and loudspeaker systems out of specificationsacoustic/electroacoustic specifications from room acoustics requirementsAnalyze microphone and loudspeaker systems Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lectures Specialized seminars on side topics Exercises in groups Practical work, including numerical simulations Assessment methods Final written exam. Resources Bibliography M. Rossi, Audio, Presses Polytechniques Universitaires Romandes, 2007 H. Kutruff, Room Acoustics, Spon Press, 4th edition, 2003 Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Audio / Rossi Room Acoustics / H. Kutruff Notes/Handbook Available on the Lab website (upload on a weekly basis). Websites http://lts2.epfl.ch"}
{"courseId": "AR-301(d)", "name": "Studio BA5 (Fr\u00f6hlich M. & A.)", "description": "The atelier will examine the programmatic and spatial organization of the Bauakademie in Berlin. The analysis, the knowledge of adequate typologies and the comprehensive investigation of the former Schinkel-Building will help us to work with the building structure and its programmatic demands. Content Schinkel's Bauakademie is one of the architect's masterpieces and an important part of classical architecture of Berlin. With the planning of a new academy building as an architectural school and exhibition centre we want both to continue the tradition and take into account the chance for renewal and innovation. Here it is important to find a synthesis of successive constructive systems, without falling into copy. It should also be created a relation between extreme functional purpose, historical quotation and poetical refinement. The new design of the building of the Bauakademie has to complement the adjacent urban renewal projects in Berlin Mitte. A field trip will take place in Berlin. (7.10-11.10.2016) The students will visit the site. The trip will focus on the work of K. F. Schinkel. The associated costs will amount to 300CHF. While the project during the autumn semester will deal with the complexity and program for an educational institution at an urban scale, we will transfer the same issues to a small art-school-studio as a testing ground during the second semester, which will result in a built 1:1 project. Keywords tradition and modernity, location and context, typology and adaption, large scale and small scale, material and atmosphere, object and ensemble. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: analyse a site, its context and a given/ existing building structure.research and apply different adequate typologies.create spatial and tactile atmospheres.develop independently a consistent architectural project.explain a design concept and its theoretical framework. Teaching methods Group work, individual work, lectures, studio work, round table discussions, study trip, intermediate review and final review with guest critics. Expected student activities Studio work, participation in various pedagogic activities, analysis of the site, development of a program, presentation of the project by means of drawings, visualizations, oral presentations and models ranging from 1:1000 to 1:1 scale. Assessment methods Evolution of the project through studio work, table critics, participation in pedagogic activities (15%), Intermediate critics (25%), Final jury (60%). Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "ENG-420", "name": "Environmental transport phenomena", "description": "The course aims at introducing basic physical aspects of molecular and turbulent diffusion, as well as of dispersion processes, their mathematical modeling, solutions and related environmental applications Content - Point source pollution- Introduction to turbulence- Jets and Plumes- Dispersion- Mixing in lakes and in reservoirs- Atmospheric boundary layer- Computational fluid dynamics Keywords Environmental diffusion, advection, dispersion, mixing, pollution, rivers, atmospheric boundary layer Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basic knowledge of fluid mechanics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Interpret the physics of transport processesElaborate linear modelsSolve linear modelsDevelop numerical transport models with FLUENT Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Lectures, exercises and projects"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-570", "name": "Advanced machine learning", "description": "This course will present some of the core advanced methods in the field for structure discovery, classification and non-linear regression. This is an advanced class in Machine Learning; hence, students are expected to have some background in the field. Content The class will be accompanied by practical session on computer, using the mldemos software (http://mldemos.epfl.ch) that encompasses more than 30 state of the art algorithms. Introduction to the major mathematical principles of Machine Learning Structure Discovery: spectral and kernel methods, kernel PCA.CCA, X-means Advanced Nonlinear Regression Methods Stochastic Modeling: Particle Filters, Reinforcement Learning and Gradient Methods Keywords Machine learning, statistics Learning Prerequisites Required courses Probability & Statistics, Linear Algebra Recommended courses Machine Learning, Pattern Recognition Important concepts to start the course Linear Algebra: Eigenvalue and singular value decomposition Statistics: Definitions of probability density function, marginal, likelihood, covariance, correlation Optimization: Lagrange multipliers, gradient descent, local and global optima \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose an appropriate methodApply the method properly Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Ex-cathedra lectures, exercises, computer-based practical sessions Expected student activities Each week, students should read the selected chapters of the Lecture Notes prior to class. Students must attend the computer-based practice session and prepare regular reports that are graded. Assessment methods 50% personal work during semester, 50% oral exam Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Machine Learning Technique / Billard Notes/Handbook Machine Learning Techniques, available at the Librairie Polytechnique. To be purchased before the class starts. Websites http://lasa.epfl.ch/teaching/lectures/ML_MSc_Advanced/ Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=14885#section-0"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-724", "name": "Ultrafast phenomena", "description": "The course will cover fundamental concepts and recent developments in the field of time-resolved spectroscopy and introduce the basic theory to understand ultrafast (10-16 - 10-9 s) phenomena in condensed matter- and biological systems. Content For the study of electronic and structural dynamics in solids and (bio-) molecules in 'real' time, a variety of time-resolved spectroscopic techniques (in the optical, THz, and X-ray region of the electromagnetic spectrum) are available.'The fastest dynamics that are accessible with state-of-the-art experiments are the motion of electrons (10-16 s), vibrational motion of molecules (10-14 s), and electronic relaxation pathways (10-12 s). Examples include the breaking of interatomic bonds, vibrational dynamics in molecular systems, and tracking of radiative and non-radiative electron relaxation pathways in biological systems.'The course will try to address technological and theoretical aspects, and in the last part a few examples from literature will be studied: \u00a0 1. Principles of femtosecond laser system \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 a.\u00a0 Overview of laser oscillators and pulse amplification \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 b.\u00a0 Parametric generation and amplification \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 c.\u00a0 Pulse measurement/characterization. \u00a0 \u00a02. Time-resolved spectroscopy methods \u00a0 \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0a.\u00a0 Transient absorption (pump-probe) spectroscopy and fluorescence\u00a0 up-conversion \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 b.\u00a0 Multidimensional spectroscopy (Photon echo) \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 c.\u00a0 Attosecond spectroscopy using high harmonic radiation \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 d.\u00a0 Time-resolved X-ray absorption spectroscopy using synchrotron and XFEL radiation \u00a0 3.\u00a0 Theory (no, or minimal, pre-existing knowledge is required) \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 a.\u00a0 Non-linear optics \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 b.\u00a0 Density matrix formalism \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 c.\u00a0 Liouville-space pathways \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 d.\u00a0 Correlation functions \u00a0 4. Examples: Photon-Echo spectroscopy, Biological electron an energy transfer, Salvation dynamics'\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Students are encouraged to bring up subjects/papers for discussion. \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 Note Suggested reading: Saleh & Teich ' Fundamentals of Photonics Series in Optics and Photonics: V. 8 ' Ultrafast Dynamics in Molecules, Nanostructures and Interfaces Peter Hamm ' Mukamel for dummies (http://www.mitr.p.lodz.pl/evu/lectures/Hamm.pdf) Minhaeng Cho ' Two dimensional optical spectroscopy"}
{"courseId": "MSE-637(b)", "name": "Transmission electron microscopy and diffraction (b)", "description": "This intensive course is intended for researchers who envisage using transmission electron microscopy to study materials samples or to help them interpret TEM data in publications. It presents basics of TEM instrumentation, imaging, electron diffraction, specimen preparation and high-resolution TEM. Content This intensive course is intended for researchers who are potential new users of transmission electron microscopes for study of materials (i.e. all non-biological) samples. It will provide them with a basic understanding of the instruments, sample requirements, optics of TEM, electron diffraction, the imaging modes, high-resolution TEM, and related theories of image formation.\u00a0Demonstrations will be given on the microscopes.\u00a0\u00a02x Year Spring (b) and autumn (a) Keywords TEM, electron diffraction, high-resolution TEM Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basic knowledge of crystallography and diffraction is advised Assessment methods Written"}
{"courseId": "ENV-405", "name": "Water and wastewater treatment", "description": "This course on water and wastewater treatment shows how to implement and design different methods and techniques to eliminate organic matter, nitrogen and phosporous from wastewater, and how to apply physical and chemical methods and techniques to produce drinking water. Content Water quality Water resources, raw water composition, drinking water regulations Principles of drinking water production Physico-chemical processes, oxidation, disinfection, adsorption processes, membrane technologies, biological processes. Process combinations for drinking water treatment Evolution of treatment trains, standard process combinations, water re-use systems Principles of organic and inorganic pollutants removal from wastewater Primary, secondary and tertiary treatment, uncoupling the hydraulic and sludge residence time. Activated sludge and immobilized biomass wastewater treatment plants Operational principles and process diagrams, structure, biology, process configurations. Elimination of nutrients The microbial and chemical processes for the removal of nitrogen and phosphorus from wastewater. \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Environmental chemistry; Microbiology for engineers Recommended courses Process engineering; Sanitary engineering, water and waste management Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Interpret data on parameters of water and wastewaterVerify the design of a classical wastewater treatment plantOptimize nutrient elimination in a wastewater treatment plantPropose a solution for wastewater treatment with the correct designAssess / Evaluate quantitatively unit processes for drinking water treatmentPropose adequate process combinations for drinking water treatmentLink raw water quality with drinking water treatment Teaching methods Lectures ex cathedra and exercises Assessment methods Two written mid-term exams during the semester (40 % of the final note) and one final written exam (180 min) during the winter session exam period (60 % of the final note). Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Resources Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=3671"}
{"courseId": "ChE-320", "name": "Bioreactor modeling and simulation", "description": "The course of Bioreactor modeling and simulation focuses on the principles of algorithmic design and analysis of biochemical reactors. The application of these designed reactors would be in the production line of the of pharmaceutical, biotech and chemical industries. Content ' Introduction to the enzyme and microbial kinetics' Modeling and simulation of bioreactors ' Design of Batch reactors ' Design of Continuous reactors ' Design of Fed-batch reactors ' Application of chemical engineering design principles ' Mass and energy balance ' Mass transfer ' Process control Keywords Bioreactor, enzymatic reactions, design and modeling, optimization Learning Prerequisites Required courses Biochemical engineeringIntroduction to chemical engineering Important concepts to start the course ModelingDifferential equations Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Realize the kinetic of enzymatic reactionsAssess / Evaluate the tools and techniques for design of bioprocessesApply the basic MATLAB programming tools for modeling of enzymatic/microbial phenomenaAnalyze the biochemical processesVisualize the results obtained through modelingModel a bioreactor Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Write a scientific or technical report.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingKeep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives. Teaching methods The course is given in a computer room. The students form groups of 3. The background theory is given in slidepresentation. Afterwards the students are assisted to solve the exercises of the project by using MATLAB. Specialworkshops of relevant toolboxes of MATLAB might take place. Expected student activities Each group collaborates to effectively solve the exercises of the project and produce every 2nd week project reportsfocusing on the background theory of design and analysis of biochemical reactors. Assessment methods There will be 5 project given throughout the semester each one containing 2 to 3 problems for implementing algorithmictechniques and solving problems in MATLAB environment.Grading will be based on the successfulness of completion of the problems of all the projects. A breakdown of thegrading is given as follows:Exercises: 4/6Code format, Clarity of presentation of results: 2/6Bonus: 0.5/6 Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "EE-536", "name": "Physical models for micro and nanosystems", "description": "Students will learn simple theoretical models, the theoretical background of finite element modeling as well as its application to modeling charge, mass and heat transport in electronic, fluidic and electromechanical micro and nanosystem. Content 1. Finite element method - background and implementation 2. Modeling electrostatic problems, voltage and charge distribution 3. Micro and nanoelectromechanical devices: mechanical properties, modeling electromechanical coupling 4. Detection systems for x-ray and gamma ray imaging devices 5. Modeling of fluid mechanics in micro and nanosystems 6. Modeling heat transfer Learning Prerequisites Required courses Basic electronics and physics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose the appropriate approach to modelling a simple deviceDesign a Comsol model appropriate for a given device typeInterpret the predictions from a modelSolve a simple theoretical device modelPerform a sanity check on a modelChoose the appropriate boundary conditions Teaching methods Ex cathedra Exercises on a computer using Comsol Project work in a small group"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-615", "name": "Reliability of MEMS (EDOC)", "description": "This doctoral class addresses the reliability of silicon and metal MEMS, covering i) Reliability Statistics, ii) Electrical Reliability of MEMS, iii) Mechanical Reliability of MEMS, and iv) Design for Reliability Paradigm. Content \u00a0 Reliability Statistics and Modeling: Accelerated testing, bathtub curve, standard statistical models and applicability to microsystems. Tools and Techniques: Measurement and characterization techniques needed to measure microsystems for accelerated testing. Electrical Reliability of MEMS: Open and short circuits, dielectric charging and breakdown, corrosion, ESD, electromigration. Reliability in the microelectronics field will presented and contrasted with reliability in microsystems. Techniques to improve lifetime Mechanical Reliability of MEMS: Stiction, friction, wear, fatigue, crack growth, creep, effect of shock and vibration, delamination. Discussion of how to accelerate and therefore how to eliminate failure modes by improved design, packaging, materials choice, actuation technique. Design for Reliability Paradigm: Design rules and multidisciplinary approach to building reliability into the microsystem from the beginning. Note Held in Neuch\u00e2tel Keywords Reliabilty, MEMS, mechanical failure modes, electrical failure modes."}
{"courseId": "EE-725", "name": "Grid and Converter Controls", "description": "The penetration of renewable energy sources (RERs) in the various levels of electrical power grids has exponentially increased in the last decade. The inherent decentralized nature of RERs is resulting in a progressive change of operation and control philosophies of both grids and sources. Content This section intends to give the basics for understanding the general grid related issues and an overview of the available tools. 20 hours in total are foreseen. 1. Introduction and network definition (2 hours) By Mario Paolone a. Power converters and renewable energy sources b. Strength of a network. c. Types of unbalance. d. Harmonic standards2. Handling of AC systems (2 hours) By Alfred Rufer a. Space Phasor Theory b. Fixed and synchronous reference frame transformations. c. Positive and negative sequence decoupling and harmonics.3. Grid synchronization (2 hours) By Daniel Siemaszko a. Single phase PLL b. Synchronous reference frame PLL c. Decoupled double synchronous reference frame (DDSRF-PLL) d. Second order generalized Integrator FLL e. PLL based on fictive axis Emulation4. Current control (4 hours) By Alfred Rufer and Daniel Siemaszko a. Vector control basics and classic current control b. Pseudo-continuous multivariable current control c. DDSRF for unbalanced current injection d. Harmonic compensation5. Electrical grid modeling (4 hours) By Mario Paolone a. General unbalanced systems b. Compound admittance matrix c. Computation examples6. Control of power converters in unbalanced systems (2 hours) By Alfred Rufer a. Control of power converters in drive applications b. Power injection in Wind industry c. Statcom applications d. Photovoltaic applications. 7. Control of power converters in weak networks (2 hours) By Daniel Siemaszko a. Network islands handling and droop control b. Microgrids 8. Grid codes (2 hours) By Mario Paolone a. Grid codes for sub-transmission connections b. Grid codes for distribution networks\u00a0Practice (Matlab-Simulink):This practice aims to give the student an intuitive know-how on the use of the tools that have been studied. 20 hours in total are foreseen.1. Electric grid modeling (4 hours) a. General modeling b. Computation examples c. Grid unbalance2. Single phase control (4 hours) a. Resonant control b. Fictive axis based control3. Three phase control (4 hours) a. various DQ Current control schemes b. Positive-negative sequence separation4. Unbalanced three phase networks and micro grids(4 hours) a. Grid synchronization b. Asymmetric current control c. Islanding detection d. Transition between island mode and network connected mode5. Mini Project (4 hours) Keywords Grid synchronization, current control, Unbalanced networks."}
{"courseId": "ENG-601(2)", "name": "Light sources: optical fiber and waveguide lasers", "description": "Spectra of rare earth ions, Intra-ionic processes, inter ionic interaction... Content \u00a0 Spectra of rare earth ions, Intra-ionic processes, inter ionic interaction Materials and waveguide fundamentals (planar and circular) Basics of lasers and amplifiers, pump and resonator geometries Bragg grating fiber lasers Pulsed fiber lasers Upconversion lasers and non-linear waveguide lasers Waveguide laser zoo hands-on on fiber splicing and handling, fiber, fiber laser characterization visit of Swiss fiber manufacturer (optional) \u00a0 Note Maximum 12 participants3h course per week from October 8 to December 3, 2015 plus one day in the lab (October 16, 23 or 30). \u00a0 Keywords Lasers, waveguides, optical fibers, resonators Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basics in physics (electrodynamics, waves, atomic physics) Basics in optics (lightwave, diffraction, lasers)"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-522", "name": "Integrated optics", "description": "The course is an introduction into optical waveguide, their concepts and applications. The focus is on basic principles, waveguide modes, their coupling, periodic structures in optical waveguides, devices, and applications. Content Electrodynamics fundamentals / Light waves at a boundary Planar waveguides Fiber optic modes Coupling of radiation to and from waveguides Fiber technology and basic devices Periodic structures in waveguides Coupled waves Optical fiber sensors Photonic crystal waveguides Integrated optical components, and applications Keywords Total internal reflection, planar waveguides, two dimensional waveguides, optical fiber, fiber sensors, coupled waves, photonic crystal waveguides, integrated optical components Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bachelor in microengineering or in electrical and electronic engineering, or in physics. Recommended courses MICRO-420: Advanced optics MICRO-421: Imaging optics MICRO-422: Lasers and optics of nanostructures MICRO-523: Optical radiation detection methods Important concepts to start the course Basics of optics, programming with MATLAB or similar, matrix calculations, Fourier transformation, electromagnetic waves, refraction and reflection, polarization, basics of geometrical optics, semiconductor physics, laser physics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Discuss planar, rectangular and circular waveguidesExplain waveguide devicesCompare periodic waveguide structuresAnalyze the properties of modes and classify waveguide modesDifferentiate material from waveguide propertiesAssess / Evaluate the potential use of waveguides as sensorsDevelop a computer program to solve the planar and cylindrical wave equation Transversal skills Manage priorities.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods Ex cathedra lectures Problem solving exercises Peer instruction, Clickers Expected student activities Regular attendance to lectures and exercises Regular attendance to problem solving exercises Matlab programming of waveguide modes Assessment methods oral exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "ENV-617", "name": "Snow Science Winter School", "description": "The modern techniques and methods to measure snow properties in the field and in the laboratory are introduced by specialists in the corresponding field. The methods are applied in the field and in the laboratory and a report prepared using the measured data. Content Objectives The cryosphere forms an integral part of the climate system of the Earth. Measuring the properties of the seasonal and perennial snow cover properties is therefore essential in understanding interactions and feedback mechanisms related to the cryosphere. Snow is an extremely complex and highly variable medium, and all essential properties of seasonal snow cover are challenging to measure. Diverse fields such as hydrology, climatology, avalanche forecasting and Earth Observation from space benefit from improved quantification of snow cover properties, in particular related to the snow microstructure. The past 10 years snow science has seen a rapid change from a semi-quantitative to a quantitative science. Understanding physical and chemical processes in the snowpack requires detailed measurements of the microstructure. The Snow Science Winter School will teach these advanced techniques, as micro-tomography, measurement of specific surface area by reflection and spectroscopy, near-infrared photography and high-resolution penetrometry. The laboratory measurements (micro-CT, thin section, fabric analysis) will take place in Davos. Every other year the course takes places in Northern Finland (Sodankyl\u00e4), with the focus on field methods and the arctic snowpack. \u00a0 Target audience Any graduate student or post-doc working on snow or in some snow related field is welcome to participate. Those fields include Glaciology, Hydrology, Oceanography, Geography, but also Biology or Chemistry as well as Engineering or Material Sciences. \u00a0 Course structure The focus of this workshop lies on field and laboratory measurements, combined with theoretical lessons in the classroom. Obligatory reading is provided about one month before the workshop, and will be examined during the school. Field and laboratory measurements will be done in small groups of 3-4 students. Each group of students will have to prepare a report describing the methods, results and interpretation of the measured data after the course. in 2017 the following lecturers are participating: 'Martin Schneebeli, WSL Institute for Snow and Avalanche Research SLF, Davos, Switzerland 'Juha Lemmetyinen, Finnish Meteorological Institute FMI, Helsinki, Finland and others, see http://www.slf.ch/dienstleistungen/events/snowschool/index_EN \u00a0 Admission For admission, the students have to apply in advance and are selected by the organizing committee. Note The lecturers change each year (except the main lecturer, M. Schneebeli) Keywords cryosphere methods Learning Prerequisites Required courses Snow physics and hydrology Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Measure snow properties using modern methods and able to choose the correct method"}
{"courseId": "MSE-461", "name": "Micro and nanostructuration of materials", "description": "This course gives an introduction to micro and nano structuration of materials, mainly of thin films. The mastering of patterning techniques is a core competence to establish technology for communication and informatics. The fast advancement in this field requires an almost annual update. Content Introduction Photolithography down to 20 nm's Electron beam lithography Wet etching - anisotropic wet etching of silicon Dry etching techniques Nano imprint techniques Approaches to self assembly \u00a0 Keywords Principles of photo lithography, limits of optical resolution, photo resists, cold plasmas for dry etching, electrochemical processes in wet etching, interaction of e-beams with matter, self assembled monolayers, nucleation phenomena, Learning Prerequisites Required courses basics in physics and chemistry Recommended courses - Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the main patterning techniquesDiscuss photoresists and patterning techniquesJustify the choice of methods Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals. Teaching methods ex-cathedra with exercises and demonstrations Expected student activities learn, read, and make exercices Assessment methods Oral exam at the end Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "ME-341", "name": "Heat and mass transfer", "description": "This course covers fundamentals of heat transfer and applications to practical problems. Emphasis will be on developing a physical and analytical understanding of conductive, convective, and radiative heat transfer. Content Introduction, to types of heat transfer. Conduction, radiation, convection. One-dimensional, and two dimensional steady state, conductive heat transfer. Transient conductive heat transfer. Convective heat transfer for external flows. Convective heat transfer for internal flows. Natural convection. Radiation: black bodies, grey bodies, form factors of surfaces, solar and infrared radiation. Heat exchangers: Types of heat exchangers, efficiency, thermal design methods. Keywords Heat transfer, conduction, convection, thermal radiation Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Incompressible fluid mechanics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Model fluid flows in energy conversion systems, compute pressure drops and heat losses and fluid structure interactions, E10Explain and apply the concepts of heat and mass transfer, E3Design and calculate heat exchangers, E15 Teaching methods The course is organized with lectures and problem working sessions Assessment methods Written exam Supervision Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "CS-251", "name": "Theory of computation", "description": "This course constitutes an introduction to theory of computation. It discusses the basic theoretical models of computing (finite automata, Turing machine), as well as, provides a solid and mathematically precise understanding of their fundamental capabilities and limitations. Content Basic models of computation (finite automata, Turing machine) Elements of computability theory (undecidability, reducibility) Introduction to complexity theory (time and space complexity, P vs. NP problem, theory of NP-completeness) Keywords theory of computation, Turing machines, P vs. NP problem, complexity theory, computability theory, finite automata, NP-completeness Learning Prerequisites Required courses CS-101 Advanced information, computation, communication I CS-250 Algorithms Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Perform a rigorous study of performance of an algorithm or a protocolClassify computational difficulty of a decision problemDefine the notion of NP-completenessAnalyze various computation modelsDesign a reduction between two computational problemsCharacterize different complexity classesExplain P vs. NP problem Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions. Teaching methods Ex cathedra with exercises"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-201(e)", "name": "General physics III", "description": "Introduction to electromagnetism. Content ElectromagnetismElectrostatics, electric field and potential. Stationary electrical currents.Magnetostatics.Electrical and magnetic fields in the condensed matter. Polarization andmagnetization of matter. Maxwell equations, electrical circuits with directcurrents (DC) or alternating currents (AC). Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses General physics I, II Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Interpret important phenomena involving electromagnetic interactionsRealize the beauty and internal consistency of Maxwell's equationsPredict the consequences of Maxwell's equations in simple but important situationsChoose to solve problems with static and time-dependent fieldsManipulate differential operators (gradient, curl, divergence, laplacian)Contextualise conservation laws for physical quantities both in local and global form Transversal skills Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions. Teaching methods Ex cathedra and exercises supervised in class Assessment methods Ronnow: written test (120 min.)"}
{"courseId": "ME-608", "name": "Methods of asymptotic analysis in mechanics", "description": "The introduction to asymptotic analysis provides the basis for constructing many simplified analytical models in mechanics and for testing computations in limiting cases. Content The following topics are covered:\u00a0 Problem solutions in terms of series and asymptotic series Ordering parameters and asymptotic analysis Asymptotic approximation of integrals (methods of stationary phase and of steepest descent applied to Fourier inversions, etc.) Singular perturbations - Matched asymptotic expansions (generalized boundary layer approximation) with examples (correction to Stokes drag of a sphere, etc.) Multi-scale methods with examples (flows with \"slow\" streamwise evolution such as developed flow in a tube with variable properties, waves evolving in slowly varying media, etc.) Note The course is principally based on the book \"Perturbation Methods in the Computer Age\" by David C. Wilcox (ISBN 0963605127 -- published 1995 by DCW Industries, La Canada, California) Keywords asymptotic expansions, singular perturbations, multiple scales, WKB"}
{"courseId": "ChE-404", "name": "Environment chemical and biological technology", "description": "The course is an introduction to the industrial waste-water treatment processes. It covers the chemical and biochemical analysis, the evaluation of toxicity and biodegradability, the biological, chemical and physico-chemical treatment systems. The students also prepares and present a team project. Content The water cycle and the risks related to its contamination Type of industrial pollutants and their impact on the environment Chemical analysis required in industrial wastewaters diagnostic and during treatment monitoring Evaluation of toxicity and biodegradability Principles of biological wastewater treatment Treatments of industrial wastewater which are no able to be treated by biological processes: Homogenization, neutralization, coagulation, flocculation, floating, sedimentation, coarse filtration. Stripping, membrane filtration, ion exchange. Wet oxidation technology, combustion, combustion. Oxidation by O3, UV/ H2O2, photo-Fenton, electrochemical oxidation\u00a0 Coupling of chemical and biological processes. Student team projects preparation and presentation on \u00a0thematic related to \u00a0hysicochemical and biological processes applied for the treatment of chemical pollution present in industrial wastewaters and not prviuously presented by the teacher. Keywords Risks of the chemical contamination; global chemical and biological analysis\u00a0of wastewater; holistic description of physical, physico- chemical and chemical treatment of pollutants in industrial wastewater. Application to the diagnostic and the remediation of pollution in specific industrial activities. Learning Prerequisites Required courses General Chemistry, Biochemistry Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the different types of industrial pollutantsEstimate the pathway and toxic impact of the industrial pollutants in the environmentWork out / Determine the average oxidation state of organic carbon in wastewaterAssess / Evaluate the toxicity and biodegradability of wastewaterDescribe a process for the biological treatment of toxic wastewaterDescribe a process for the physico-chemical treatment of toxic wastewaterDescribe a process for the oxidative treatment of toxic wastewaterPropose an holistic vision of the techniques involved in industrial wastewater treatment Teaching methods Course with exercises case studies. Presentation of projects by student teams Visit to a wastewater treatment plant Expected student activities Student teams prepares and presents project related to the processes applied to the treatment of pollution generated by different industrial activities. Assessment methods Continuous (Test and project presentation) Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-515", "name": "Evolutionary robotics", "description": "The course describes theories, methods, and technologies for designing software and hardware systems that are inspired upon natural evolution. It also shows how artificial systems can help to understand biological systems. Content Natural and Artificial Evolution Evolutionary Computation and Applications Evolution of Neural Systems Advanced Evolutionary Algorithms Evolutionary Robotics Developmental Systems Evolution of Collective Systems Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Apply new tools for software and hardware engineeringTranslate acquired theoretical knowledge in practical implementations during laboratory sessions Teaching methods Students will put the theory in practice by evolving the morphology and neural control of mobile robots in physics-based simulations and will also be able to 3D print and assemble the best evolved robots. Assessment methods Mini-project report/presentation written exam"}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-404", "name": "Analysis and modelling of locomotion", "description": "The lecture presents an overview of the state of the art in the analysis and modeling of human locomotion and the underlying motor circuits. Multiple aspects are considered including neurophysiology, gait characterization, biomechanics, numerical modeling, neuroprosthetics, and links to biped robots Content Neural basis of locomotion and its implication for the design of neuroprosthesis. Spinal circuitry underlying locomotion, role of sensory information, modulation through descending systems, cortical circuitry contributing to locomotion, design of gait neuroprosthesis. Introduction on the basics in anatomy and physiology of locomotion, kinematics measurement and motion capture. Stereo-photogrammetry, ultrasound and magnetic motion capture. Accelerometers, gyroscopes, magnetometers and inertial-based motion capture systems. Kinematics approach for gait analysis. Kinetics of locomotion. forces and moment measurements- Forces transducers and force plates, pressure measuring systems and pressure insoles, combining kinetics with kinematics, energy and power of body segment inverse dynamics, muscular activity. Application to gait analysis Spatio-temporal gait analysis. Walking phase detection, measurement of stride length, stride velocity, cadence and other spatio-temporal parameters. Gait symmetry, gait variability and gait coordination measurement. Clinical gait analysis. Practical examples of modeling relevant analogies of equivalents of locomotion Numerical models of the mechanics of biped locomotion. Inverted pendulum models. Spring-loaded inverse pendulum models. Links to robotics such as passive and dynamic walkers. Numerical models of neural control of locomotion. Reflexes and central pattern generation. Comparison to control methods used in biped robots. Links to neuroprosthetics (e.g. functional electromyographic stimulation and exoskeletons) \u00a0 Keywords Neurophysiology, motor system, locomotion, kinematics, gait analysis,MATLAB, numerical modeling, robotics, neuroprosthetics Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Physics I,II,III,IV, MATLAB, Basic physiology and biology Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Generalize concepts seen in the courseHypothesize about the neural and mechanical principles underlying human locomotionAnalyze data from experiments and from simulated modelsModel neuromechanical properties of the human locomotor systemTest neuromechanical models Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lectures, with exercises, modeling session with MATLAB, recording of spinal rats locomotion, followed by kinematic, kinetic, and EMG analyses. Expected student activities Attending lectures Solving exercises Testing numerical models Animal experiments Assessment methods Written exam with MCQ and short answer questions Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "EE-708", "name": "Advanced topics in electromagnetic compatibility", "description": "After a series of common introductory topics covering an introduction to electromagnetic compatibility, modeling techniques and selected chapters from EMC, each student will study a specific topic, which will be presented and discussed. Content Common introductory topics: Introduction to EMC and modeling techniques Representation of EMI signals Other topics to be selected (non-exhaustive list): Printed circuit board design High frequency electromagnetic field coupling to transmission lines Grounding techniques Shielding Modeling of a lightning discharge Biological effects of electromagnetic fields Keywords Electromagnetic Compatibility."}
{"courseId": "EE-729", "name": "Fundamentals of Biometrics", "description": "The goal of this course is to give its participants an understanding of and competence with the advanced theories and concepts underlying analysis, modeling and interpretation of biometric data, as well as the state-of-the-art pattern recognition technologies for the design of biometric systems. Content 1. Introduction to Biometrics: Identity and Biometrics, Individuality of Biometric Data, Generic Biometric System, Biometric Modalities, Recognition, Verification, Identification and Authentication2. Analysis, Modeling and Interpretation of Biometric Data: Sensing, Representation and Feature Extraction, Local and Global Features, Enrollment and Template Creation, Deterministic, Statistical and Probabilistic Models, Biometric System Errors, Evaluation of Biometric Systems3. Leading Biometric Characteristics: Physiological Characteristics (face (2D and 3D), fingerprints, iris, hand shape and veins, palmprint, ear), Behavioral Characteristics (dynamic signature, voice, gait, typing rhythm), Biological Traces (DNA, odour), Other modalities under development4. Fundamental Mathematical Tools for Analysis and Modeling in Biometrics: Transforms, Principal Component Analysis (PCA), Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA), Local Texture Patterns, Histograms, Clustering Methods, Gaussian Mixture Models (GMMs), Dynamic Time Warping (DTW), Hidden Markov Models (HMMs), Bayesian Networks, Joint Factor Analysis (JFA), iVectors, Multiclassifiers5. Multimodal Biometrics6. Advanced Topics in Biometrics: Quality of Biometric Data, Robustness and Reliability of Biometric Systems, Ageing and Heterogeneous Biometrics, Soft Biometrics, Person Recognition at Distance, Synthetic Biometric Data Generation, Protection and Revocability of Biometric Templates 7. Integration of Biometrics into Other Technologies: identity documents, smart cards, mobile smartphones and tablets, e-technologies, cyber security. Keywords Biometrics, Identity verification, Identification, Fingerprint, Face, Iris, Signature, Palmprint, DNA. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Linear Algebra, Probabilities and Statistics, Signal Processing, Pattern Recognition."}
{"courseId": "CS-470", "name": "Advanced computer architecture", "description": "The course studies the most important techniques to exploit Instruction-Level Parallelism and discusses the relation with the critical phases of compilation. It also analyses emerging classes of processors for complex single-chip systems. Content Pushing processor performance to its limits: Principles of Instruction Level Parallelism (ILP). Register renaming techniques. Prediction and speculation. Simultaneous multithreading. VLIW and compiler techniques for ILP. Dynamic binary translation. Embedded processors: Specificities over stand-alone processors. Overview of DSPs and related compilation challenges. Configurable and customisable processors. Keywords Processors, Instruction Level Parallelism, Systems-on-Chip, Embedded Systems. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Architecture des ordinateurs I (coursebook until 2013-2014). Architecture des ordinateurs (coursebook since 2014-2015). Recommended courses Architecture des ordinateurs II (coursebook until 2013-2014). Architecture des syst\u00e8mes-on-chip (coursebook since 2014-2015). Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design strategies to exploit instruction level parallelism in processors.Contrast static and dynamic techniques for instruction level parallelism.Design effective processor (micro-)architectures for which efficient compilers can be written. Teaching methods Courses, labs, and compulsory homeworks. Assessment methods Final oral exam. Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "CH-404", "name": "Laboratory information management systems (LIMS)", "description": "Please see content below Content 1. IntroductionBasics of LIMS - Historical background - Who uses LIMS nowadays?\u00a02. What is a LIMS ?LIMS components - Functionalities of a LIMS - Possible structures of LIMS - Interfacing with laboratory equipment - Four application fields of LIMS - Sample lifecycle within a LIMS - Validation - What does a LIMS and what it doesn't do - Advantages et drawbacks of LIMS\u00a03. Implementation of a LIMSNeeds and requirements - Actors and resources involved - Traps to avoid - Migrations et updates\u00a04. Two case studiesWhy a LIMS ? - From the beginning to the final implementation - Consequences within the daily life of the company\u00a05. Extensions for LIMSExternal connections - Pharmaceutics special requests\u00a06. The LIMS marketMain partners and others - Views of some existing LIMS\u00a07. Some financial aspectsDirect and indirect costs\u00ab ROI \u00bb : return on investment\u00a08. View to the futureGrowing importance and evolution of LIMSConclusions Learning Prerequisites Required courses To register this course, you first need to follow this course: CH-405 Methodology in instrumental chromatography. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe LIMS components, structures and propertiesList possible uses and applicationsExplain what LIMS are, what's their features and benefitsReport a practical case study from the local industryPropose enhancements and compare with other case studies"}
{"courseId": "FIN-521", "name": "Advanced topics in financial econometrics", "description": "The course presents some advanced topics in financial econometrics. Content Nonparametric option pricing; high frequency data; liquidity in foreign exchange markets; variance swaps Keywords High frequency data - liquidity - variance swaps Learning Prerequisites Required courses Derivatives Econometrics Financial econometrics Introduction to finance Recommended courses Time series Important concepts to start the course Risk-neutral pricing Derivatives contracts Computer coding and handling of real data Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Use econometric theory to make inference on stochastic volatility models like GARCH models.Implement semiparametric GARCH models for option pricing based on Monte Carlo simulation.Discuss and implement nonparametric option pricing models based for example on local linear smoothing of implied volatilities.Estimate advantages and disadvantages of parametric, semiparametric and nonparametric option pricing models.Describe the main stylized facts of high frequency data like market microstructure noise, bid-ask bouncing, and intraday patterns.Apply econometric models for high frequency data to estimate volatility, market microstructure noise, price impact and other liquidity measures.Describe popular trading strategies in the foreign exchange market like carry trade.Discuss the main features of volatility markets like variance swap markets.Formulate the valuation of variance swaps under general stochastic volatility models.Discuss the term structure of equity and variance risk premia.Conduct team-work and write an econometric report about stochastic volatility and option pricing models. Transversal skills Summarize an article or a technical report.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art. Teaching methods Lectures Expected student activities Group homework Attendance at lectures (as covered material is advanced) Reading research articles Assessment methods 40% Homework 60% Final exam (close book) Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No Others upon appointment"}
{"courseId": "MATH-405", "name": "Harmonic analysis", "description": "An introduction to methods of harmonic analysis. Covers convergence of Fourier series, Hilbert transform, Calderon-Zygmund theory, Fourier restriction, and applications to PDE. Content -Fourier series, convergence and summability. -Fourier series, convergence and summability. -Hilbert transform. -Calderon-Zygmund theory of singular integrals. -Liitlewood-Paley theory. -Fourier restriction. -Applications to dispersive PDE. Keywords Fourier series, convergence, singular integrals, Calderon-Zygmund theory, Fourier restriction. Learning Prerequisites Required courses \u00a0 Analyse I - IV, Algebre lineaire I et II. Recommended courses Analyse I - IV, Algebre lineaire I et II. Important concepts to start the course \u00a0 Understand key concepts of real analysis, such as measure and Lebesgue integral. Be able to construct a rigorous mathematical argument. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze convergence of Fourier seriesExamine bounds for singular integralsProve bounds for dispersive PDE Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion. Teaching methods Two hours ex cathedra lectures, two hours of exercises led by teaching assistant. Expected student activities \u00a0 Attend lectures and exercise sessions, read course materials, solve exercises. Assessment methods \u00a0 Oral exam at the end of course. Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "BIO-443", "name": "Fundamentals of biophotonics", "description": "This module serves as an introduction to the area of biophotonics. The approach is multidisciplinary .The course is mainly knowledge-based but students will benefit from the skills learned by carrying out problem solving and by completing the assignment. Content We will focus on aspects following biophotonics aspects: light - biological matter interactions, optical spectroscopies and their applications, lasers in biology and medicine, photobiology, optical imagery, optical biosensors, light as a therapeutic tool, micro-array technology, laser tweezers and emerging biophotonic technologies Keywords absorption, emission, spectral response, reflection fluorescence, scattering, laser,fluorescent labeling Learning Prerequisites Required courses Physics and biology elementary bachelor degree courses Biomicroscopy I Biomicroscopy II Important concepts to start the course The aims of the course are : -Understand light-biological matter interaction; such as absorption, emission, spectral response, reflection fluorescence, scattering, etc. -Optical sources and detectors -Extend this understanding to interaction with cells and tissue highlighting the physical characteristics used in the applications to follow -Fluorophore development and functionality, fluorescence microscopy of the cell cycle -Show some therapeutic applications of light (Photo-activation of drugs Photo-dynamic therapies Tissue engineering with light) -Initiate the students to optical techniques applied to biological materials -Give an overview of optical biosensor methods and principles in optogenetcis Fluorescent labeling and the mechanism of fluorescent resonant energy transfer (FRET), FLIM, FRAP, FCS: applications to biosensors, Raman-based biosensors Labelfree: Surface Plasmon resonance (SPR) and dielectric waveguide methods, biosensors based on whispering gallery modes in microresonators At the end of the course, the student would have acquired the required knowledge to apprehend the future biophotonics practical applications. \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate advantages and disadvantages of particular bio photonics technique to solve the problems at the interface of engineering and biologyFormulate the role of photonics in biology and biomedicineDerive the main concepts involved in the interaction of optical radiation with biological materialsArgue the main applications of biophotonics in particular in the area of imaging and diagnosticsSolve numerical problems which illustrate the principles of phenomena such as luminescence, absorption and scatteringAssess / Evaluate bioimaging techniques such as confocal and superresolution microscopies, FRET and FLIM-based imagingDemonstrate oral and written communication skills Transversal skills Write a scientific or technical report.Make an oral presentation.Manage priorities."}
{"courseId": "BIO-687", "name": "Engineering of musculoskeletal system and rehabilitation", "description": "This course presents today research questions and methods associated to the musculoskeletal system, its pathologies, and treatement. In paralell to lectures and hands-on lab, the students will acquire this knowledge by doing a mini-project. Content The course is divided in 5 modules given in the format of lectures, plus one morning in the hospital to attend a surgery. The first module includes theoretical background on biomechanics of musculoskeletal system and the analysis of movement. Three modules are related to a specific joint, and one module is devoted to tissue engineering. There will be a final presentation of the student mini-projects. Lectures from both engineering and medical points of view will be presented. \u00a0 1.\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 General concept of musculoskeletal system biomechanics and locomotion. 1.1\u00a0 Introduction to biomechanics, conservation laws constitutive equations 1.2\u00a0 General numerical concepts (FE, \u00b5FE) 1.3\u00a0 Kinematics and locomotion evaluation \u00a0 2.\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Hip/knee 2.1\u00a0 Knee and hip arthritis, ligament ruptures, knee/hip implant, ligament surgery 2.2\u00a0 Knee, hip, ligament modeling, patient specific model, implant design comparison 2.3\u00a0 Bone remodeling, local drug delivery (mCT & mFE) 2.4\u00a0 3D gait analysis using kinematics and spatio-temporal parameters 2.5\u00a0 Manufacturing aspects \u00a0 3.\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Shoulder 3.1\u00a0 Shoulder anatomy, diseases, surgical treatments 3.2\u00a0 CT & MR images for FE modeling 3.3\u00a0 3D functional evaluations with functional test and long-term monitoring \u00a0 4.\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Tissue engineering 4.1\u00a0 Biomechanics in tissue engineering 4.2\u00a0 Bone and cartilage tissue engineering \u00a0 5.\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Ankle 5.1\u00a0 Ankle anatomy, diseases, surgical treatments 5.2\u00a0 FE modeling, experimental (cadaveric) data to validate FE, revision prostheses 5.3\u00a0 3D gait analysis with ground reaction force and inverse dynamics \u00a0 6.\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Possibility to attend a total joint replacement surgery 7.\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Project presentations with all students"}
{"courseId": "MGT-400", "name": "Corporate strategy", "description": "Why are some firms more successful than others? This is the fundamental question of strategy. A key concern of managers is the complex and uncertain relationship between the firm, its strategy, its performance and its environment. You study competition from the perspective of top management. Content What is strategy? And why are some firms more successful than others? \u00a0 These are the two key questions this course will give answers to, within a busienss context. This course is designed to study competition from the perspective of top management. A principal concern of managers is the relationship between a company, its strategy, its environment and the firm's performance. This relationship is complex, uncertain, and always changing. Top managers shape and guide this relationship, making strategic decisions that change the organization's capabilities, shift its position in the environment, or lead the firm into a new business. Consequently, this course has been designed to introduce students to the different aspects of strategic decision-making. For the most part, we will tackle the complexity and ambiguity of strategic decision making through discussions of case studies that provide rich descriptions of situations that are faced by real companies that either fail or succeed. In addition, various external speakers (company representatives) will discuss their company's strategy and challenges with you. In class, I will act as moderator, questioner, and lecturer to help you gain a better understanding of firms' strategy, their formulation, and implementation. By actively participating in class discussions, you will sharpen your own insights, and those of your classmates. Keywords corporate strategy, business strategy, competitive advantage, firm performance Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Examine concepts, models, and tools of strategic analysisAnalyze concepts and tools of strategic thinking to identify cause-effect relationshipsSynthesize firm level information and facts to support or reject cause-effect relationshipsAssess / Evaluate firm level corporate and business strategies of real firms Transversal skills Resolve conflicts in ways that are productive for the task and the people concerned.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Summarize an article or a technical report.Make an oral presentation.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Write a scientific or technical report.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking Teaching methods Reading and discussion of key theoretical frameworks; Group work: in and outside class; Case discussions; Guest lectures & discussions with company representatives. Expected student activities Attend all classes; read all material assigned for the course Participate actively in class discussion and new presentations Complete a group project (team work) Read and prepare case studies (individual) Synthesize a (business) news article (team work) Assessment methods Continuous assessment combining: 20% classroom contribution 10% news presentation 30% midterm exam 40% team project"}
{"courseId": "MATH-350", "name": "Introduction to the finite elements method", "description": "Introduction to the finite element method for the numerical solution of differential problems in one or several dimensions. Mathematical aspects, numerical algorithms, application to diffusion, transport and reaction problems of physical relevance Content - Examples of elliptic, parabolic and hyperbolic problems- Weak formulation - Finite element approximation- Stability and convergence analysis for elliptic problems- Discretization by finite differences in time and finite elements in space of time-dependent problems - Temporal stability analysis - Finite element coding by MATLAB Keywords finite element method stability, convergence, error estimates solution of large dimensional systems application to physics and engineering Learning Prerequisites Required courses Analyse I et II Analyse Numerique \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 Recommended courses Cours pr\u00e9requis indicatifs \u00a0 Programmation Analyse III \u00a0 \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course \u00a0 differential equations linear systems \u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose an appropriate methodInterpret the results of a computation in light of theoryAssess / Evaluate numerical errorsProve mathematical properties of the finite element methodApply the finite element method to solve problems of physical relevance Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture and exercises in classroom Expected student activities Presence and participation to class To solve the exercises To solve physical problems on a computer Assessment methods written exam \u00a0 Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Resources Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Numerical Approximation of Partial Differential Equations / Quarteroni Numerical Models for Differential Problems / Quarteroni Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=6221"}
{"courseId": "EE-603", "name": "Transient and dynamic analysis of electric power systems", "description": "The learning outcome is to increase the knowledge of simulation methods and the role of computers in the management and the operation of electric power systems. Content Dynamic phenomena:\u00a0 - Frequency range - Power system components modeling - General mathematical formulation - Transient stability: direct approach, time domain approach, ... - Small signal stability: eigenvalues, eigenvectors, participation factors, poorly damped modes, ... - Long term stability: load frequency control, automatic generation control, ... - Examples of applications\u00a0 Transient phenomena:\u00a0 - Sources of disturbances and transients in power systems. - Generalized transmission line theory for a multiconductor line - Parameters of a multiconductor transmission line - Effect of losses due to the ground finite conductivity and corona - Interaction with an external electromagnetic field - Solution methods in time and frequency domains (FDTD method and BLT equations) - Treatment of frequency dependence in a time domain algorithm - Treatment of nonlinearities in a frequency domain algorithm - Examples of application"}
{"courseId": "FIN-608", "name": "Information and Asset Pricing", "description": "We study the role of information in equilibrium asset pricing models. We cover simple one-period models of incomplete and asymmetric information using competitive rational expectation equilibria and Bayesian-Nash equilibria. We extend the analysis to dynamic models with heterogeneous beliefs. Content 1. Introduction- Competitive Rational Expectation Equilibrium vs Strategic Bayesian Nash Equilibrium\u00a02. Asymmetric Information / Private Information- Informational efficiency - Grossman and Stiglitz (1980): information acquisition and fully revealing equilibrium- No trade Theorem - Milgrom and Stokey (1982): information and absence of trade- Sequential trading / microstructure - Kyle (1985): informed traders\u00a03. Learning and Heterogenous Beliefs:- Dynamic learning / Bayesian filtering: Cecchetti, Lam and Mark (2000): Equilibrium in representative agent models - Heterogenous beliefs and equilibrium: Detemple and Murthy (1994)- Irrationality / learning (Survival and price impact) - Blume and Easley (2006), Kogan et al. (2006) Keywords Information, Asset Pricing."}
{"courseId": "CS-473", "name": "Embedded systems", "description": "The comprehension of a general embedded systems and the design of an embedded system on a programmable circuit (FPGA) are the main subjects of this course. The student will design a camera or a LCD controller on an FPGA associated with a softcore processor. VHDL design and C programming. Content Microcontroller and associated programmable interfaces (GPIO, Timer, SPI, A/D, PWM, interrupts) Hardcore/softcore processors (ie. NIOS II, ARM) Memory organization, little/big endian Synchronous bus, dynamic bus sizing (ie. Avalon Bus in Memory Mapped mode) Processor bus, bus realized in a FPGA Serial bus (ie. UART, SPI, i2c, ...) How a LCD graphical screen and a CMOS camera work FPGA Embedded systems conception methodology Embedded systems with processor on FPGA \u00a0 Laboratories provide knowledge & practice to develop an embedded system based on FPGA module (http://fpga4u.epfl.ch). Keywords microprocessors, microcontroller, FPGA, embedded systems, SoC, programmable interface Learning Prerequisites Required courses Introduction to computing systems, Logic systems, Computer architecture Recommended courses Electronic, Programming (C/C ), Project System On Chip Important concepts to start the course Computer architecture (processor, memory, programmable interfaces) Processor Architecture (PC, registers, ALU, instruction decoding, instruction ex\u00e9cution) C programming language knowledge, VHDL knowledge Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design an embedded system on a FPGAAnalyze a specific problem to solve and propose a system on FPGA to solve itImplement a solution to resolve the proposed problemRealize and simulate the designTest the developed solution on a FPGAUse complexe developping tools and hardware tools as logic analyzer and oscilloscope Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Negotiate effectively within the group.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsMake an oral presentation. Teaching methods Ex cathedra and exercises, laboratories by specific sub-topics, final mini-project Expected student activities Reading and deepening of course concepts Preparation of exercises performed in the laboratory Writing reports on different labs Realization of a final mini-project by group with oral presentation, report and demonstration Assessment methods With continuous control.all labos 30%, mini-projet 20%, oral exam 50% Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes Others Course on Moodle with forum Resources Bibliography Teaching notes and suggested reading material on moodle Specialized datasheet (micro-controllers, FPGA) and norms (ie, SPI, i2c, Amba, Avalon, etc ) Notes/Handbook Documents and slides provided on moodle Websites http://fpga4u.epfl.ch Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=1231"}
{"courseId": "MSE-478", "name": "Organic semiconductors", "description": "This course provides an introduction to organic semiconducting materials starting from fundamental optical and electronic properties of conjugated small molecules and polymers. Furthermore, electronic and optical properties in the solid sate and applications in optoelectronic devices are studied. Content 1. Conjugated molecules interacting with light (electronic orbitals, optical and electronic properties, photochemical reactions), biological systems2. Structure and properties of conjugated molecular materials (crystalline materials, polymers, liquid crystals)3. Applications in electronics and optoelectronics (LCD displays, solar cells, light-emitting diodes, transistors) \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Elaborate a topic in the field of organic optoelectronic devicesInterpret organic thin film device performance in terms of fundamental processesSolve a physical problem in the field of organic semiconductors quantitativelyEstimate order of magnitude of physical effects occuring in organic semiconductorsDifferentiate between organic and inorganc semconductorsAnalyze fundamental processes in organic semiconductorsModel molecular orbitals and organic thin film device propertiesReport on a scientific publication"}
{"courseId": "MATH-460", "name": "Combinatorial optimization", "description": "The guiding question of Combinatorial Optimization is: How do I efficiently select an optimal solution among a finite but very large set of alternatives? We will address the solution of this question in the context of classical discrete optimization problems. Content Paths and flows: Stronlgly polynomial time algorithms for shortest paths and minimum cost network flows Minimum spanning trees and matroids: Greedy, Kruskal's and Prim's algorithm Arborescences and matroid intersection Polyhedra and approximation algorithms Maximum weight matchings in general graphs and the matching polytope Keywords Algorithm Polyhedron Matroid NP-completeness \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Discrete optimization (Second year math.) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose an appropriate method for solving a combinatorial optimization problemProve theorems in discrete optimizationDesign algorithmsAnalyze efficiency of algorithms Transversal skills Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture and exercises to be solved at home and in\u00a0 the classroom \u00a0 Expected student activities Attendance of lectures and exercises Completion of exercises at home Study of literature Assessment methods Written exam during exam session Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "BIO-463", "name": "Genomics and bioinformatics", "description": "This course reviews the different techniques of DNA sequence analysis and the associated bioinformatics tools in the context of applications to current research in molecular biology. Content Genome sequencing and assembly Genome annotation, gene prediction Hidden Markov Models Comparative genomics Phylogenetic trees Models of molecular evolution Transcription Gene expression profiling Gene regulation Chromosome conformation Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Molecular biology, genetics,\u00a0linear algebra, ordinary differential equations, basic statistics,\u00a0computer programming Important concepts to start the course DNA and RNA, replication, transcription and translation. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Interpret large-scale genomic dataManipulate high-dimensional, noisy and heterogeneous genomic dataDescribe classical algorithms for DNA sequence analysis and gene expression classificationDevelop a quantitative understanding of transcriptional regulation Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Summarize an article or a technical report.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods 2 hours lecture (theoretical concepts) followed by 2 hours practical exercises (review the theory and practice with bioinformatics tools and data) Lecture notes, slides and exercises provided on Moodle. \u00a0 Assessment methods 2 written tests covering mostly the lecture part: at week 7 and week 14, each counts for 50% of the grade."}
{"courseId": "ME-623", "name": "Advances in Contact Mechanics", "description": "This is a reading class intended for graduate students interested in learning about the recent and fast developments in the field of contact mechanics and tribology. We will read basic introductory chapters and have in-depth class discussions on recent publications (from nanotriboly to earthquakes). Content Rough surfaces Molecular origins of friction and wear Multi-asperity models Friction and fracture Rate and state friction laws Stick slip and earthquakes Each weeks students will be assigned reading that will be discussed in class the following week (format is a reading class, and evaluation is based on active participation)"}
{"courseId": "MSE-651", "name": "Crystallography of structural phase transformations", "description": "The microstructure of many alloys and ceramics are constituted of very fine intricate domains (variants) created by diffusive or displacive phase transformations. The course introduces the crystallographic tools required to define, calculate and predict the different configurations of variants. Content Many alloys, ceramics and nanomaterials are constituted of a fine microstructure created by structural phase transformations: nano-precipitates in aluminium or other alloys, laths of martensitic steels, basket-weave morphologies in titanium or zirconium alloys, twinned martensite in shape memory alloys, oriented domains in ferroelectrics, multiple twins in some metallic or silicon nanowires etc. The small size and complex intricacy of the domains give to the materials their unique mechanical and physical properties. A branch of materials science aims at improving these properties by studying the influence of some element additions and some modifications of elaboration process parameters. For these studies, a good understanding of the formation of the crystallographic domains is required: How can the domains be mathematically defined and computed? Why do they adopt such complex fine morphologies? Is it possible to extract information on the parent phase from a completely transformed material? \u00a0 The aim of the course is to give the main elements of response: \u00a0 - The course will start by a global overview of the different microstructures resulting from a phase transformation in its broad meaning; which includes precipitation, order-disorder, twinning etc. - Simple notions of crystallography will be recalled: The crystal systems, the point and space groups, and the notions of holohedry will be shortly explained (or reminded). - Matrix calculations in direct and reciprocal space will be explained: structure, metric, correspondence and other transformation matrices will be detailed. The notion of coincidence site latice (CSL) and special grain boundries will be treated. - The geometrical notions of global/local symmetries and the related algebraic concepts of groups and actions of groups will be introduced with simple geometric examples. It will be shown that a generalized structure derived from groups, called groupoid, can catch the fascinating complexity of the variants. - Some characteristics such as hysteresis, reversibility, transformation plasticity will be considered in direct link with some crystallographic properties such as group/subgroup relation, lattice compatibilities etc. - These theoretical concepts will be applied to specific materials (precipitation in aluminium, martensite in steels, multiple twinning in copper) correlated to industrial problems. It will be shown how groupoids can be used to reconstruct the prior parent grains and quantify variant selection mechanisms. - Finally, brief examples will be taken from literature to show that groupoids are well adapted to treat many symmetry-related problems in physics, chemistry and biology. \u00a0 This course is intended for students or researchers in materials science. Chemists and biologists working on problems involving symmetries can also be interested in the general concepts.\u00a0 ''' Keywords Symmetries, variants, domains, phase transformations/transitions, coordinate transformation matrices, correspondence matrices, group theory, groupoids. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses The course does not require specific knowledge, except a basic background on linear algebra."}
{"courseId": "MICRO-700", "name": "Advanced analog IC design", "description": "Since the MOS transistor is the basic component of device-level analog circuit design, in this course a strong emphasis will be given on its basic theory: structure and definitions; calculation of surface field and potential, total charge, mobile inversion charge, pinch-off voltage, gate capacitance Content 1. MOS and Bipolar: Modes of Operation and Models2. Passive Components and Parasitic Effects3. Layout Techniques for Analog Circuits4. Elementary Building Blocks5. Voltage References6. Analog Functional Blocks7. BiCMOS Analog Building Blocks8. CMOS Off-Chip Drivers9. Switched - Capacitor Circuit Design10. Future Trends in Analog ICs\u00a0 Note * Organized by MEAD/EPFL More informations & registration at:http://mead.ch/MEADNEW/advanced-analog-cmos-ic-design/ Contact: education@mead.ch Keywords Analog IC Design, MOS, Bipolar, BiCMOS"}
{"courseId": "COM-208", "name": "Computer networks", "description": "This course provides an introduction to computer networks. It describes the principles that underly modern network operation and illustrates them using the Internet as an example. Content Overview of Internet operation (main components and protocols). Application layer (web, cookies, ads, email, peer to peer). Socket programming (how to write a very simple network application). Transport layer (UDP, TCP, congestion control). Network layer (IP forwarding and basic routing). Data link layer (switching and basic shared access protocols). Security (secure email, SSL, IPsec). \u00a0 Keywords Computer networks Internet HTTP Peer-to-peer networks Sockets, TCP/IP, congestion control, routing, switching, network security. Learning Prerequisites Required courses CS 106 - Introduction to programming COM 101 - Information sciences Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design simple network applications.Choose which functions to implement at each network layer.Compare different network protocols.Perform simple network troubleshooting.Use simple network monitoring tools.Implement simple client-server applications.Investigate simple network attacks.Explain how basic Internet applications work.Explain how TCP/IP works. Teaching methods Lectures Reading sssignments Homework problems Hands-on exercises Expected student activities The students are expected to: attend the lectures read the assigned book sections complete homework problems complete hands-on exercises. Assessment methods Quizzes and short essay (bonus points that can contribute up to 10% of the grade). Midterm exam (40% of the grade). Final exam (60% of the grade). Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MSE-421", "name": "Statistical mechanics", "description": "This course presents an introduction to statistical mechanics geared towards materials scientists. The concepts of macroscopic thermodynamics will be related to a microscopic picture and a statistical interpretation. Lectures and exercises will be complemented with hands-on simulation projects. Content - From macroscopic thermodynamics to statistical mechanics - Probability: binomial distribution, central limit theorem, normal distribution - Ensembles, observables and the partition function - Examples from materials science - Undistinguishable particles: Fermi and Bose-Einstein distributions - Phase transitions: Ising model, spin glasses - Renormalization Group Theory - Theory of liquids - structure factor and radial distribution function - Statistical theories of polymers Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Phenomenological thermodynamics, probability and statistics. A brief \"reminder\" will be included at the beginning of the course. Practical exercises will be based on Mathematica notebooks: while they are structured in such a way that knowledge of Mathematica programming is not necessary, some familiarity with the software might be useful to go beyond the basic objectives of the exercises.\u00a0 Learning Outcomes Compute probabilities of correlated eventsConstruct the partition function of simple model systemsCompare thermodynamic concepts and the correspondent microscopic mechanismsSolve simple materials science problems using statistical toolsDescribe the statistical description of liquids and polymersExplain the meaning of renormalization group theoryConduct computer experiments using the provided simulation codeDifferentiate the meaning of different ensembles, and of the indistinguishability of quantum particles Teaching methods Ex cathedra, exercises, and guided simulation projects Expected student activities Students are expected to study demonstrations and fundamental concepts following the course slides and the reference books, to solve the problems given during the exercise sessions, and to prepare (in groups) reports for the computational laboratory activities. Assessment methods Continuous evaluation, graded lab reports, final oral exam"}
{"courseId": "MGT-482", "name": "Principles of finance", "description": "This course is intended to provide a market-oriented framework for analyzing the major of financial decisions made by corporations. Lectures and readings will provide an introduction to present value techniques, capital budgeting, asset valuation, the financial decisions of firms, and derivatives. Content 1. Introduction to finance2. Arbitrage, discounting, and the term structure of interest rates 3. Introduction to the valuation of bonds and stocks4. Risk and return5. Capital Budgeting6. Capital Structure Decisions7. Financial derivatives8. Option Valuation9. Introduction to Risk Management Keywords Corporate Finance, Valuation, Arbitrage Pricing, Option Pricing Theory, Risk Management Learning Prerequisites Required courses No prerequisite Recommended courses No prerequisite Important concepts to start the course No prerequisite Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Understand standard valuations models used in financial marketsUnderstand the trade-off between risk and returnDevelop an ability to make portfolio decisionsDevelop an ability to analyze and evaluate firms and investment projectsUnderstand the determinants of financing decisionsUnderstand derivatives markets and their benefits and costs Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Negotiate effectively within the group.Resolve conflicts in ways that are productive for the task and the people concerned.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsAccess and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Collect data. Teaching methods Lectures, homework, exercises Assessment methods 50% Homework 50% Final exam Homework is open book. Final exam is closed-book. Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Bibliography Berk and DeMarzo, Corporate Finance, Pearson 2007 Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Corporate Finance / Berk Notes/Handbook Available on the Moodle site"}
{"courseId": "HUM-422(b)", "name": "Understanding modern Switzerland II", "description": "Based on the knowledge acquired during the fall semester course (Understanding modern Switzerland I), students are asked to work by group of 3-4 students and prepare a paper on a topic previously discussed with the teachers. Content See the full description of the course in the \"Introduction to project\" of the fall semester (HUM-422a). Keywords Switzerland, history, culture, political institutions, economic structure, foreign policy Learning Prerequisites Required courses Understanding modern Switzerland I (HUM-422a) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Elaborate a research questionPresent the existing literature on a chosen topicSynthesize the results of a personal research Transversal skills Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingAccess and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Write a scientific or technical report.Make an oral presentation.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures. Assessment methods Evaluation on a semester basis (grade associated to 3 ECTS). Fall semester evaluation is about knowledge acquisition and the elaboration of a project plan. Spring semester evaluation is about the realization of the project. More information is given at the beginning of the academic year."}
{"courseId": "ME-464", "name": "Introduction to nuclear engineering", "description": "This course is intended to understand the engineering design of nuclear power plants using the basic principles of reactor physics, fluid flow and heat transfer. This course includes the following: Reactor designs, Thermal analysis of nuclear fuel, Nuclear safety and Reactor dynamics Content Brief review of nuclear physics - Nuclear reactions and radioactivity - Cross sections - Introductory elements of neutronics. Neutron diffusion and slowing down - Monoenergetic neutrons - Angular and scalar flux - Diffusion theory as simplified case of transport theory - Neutron slowing down through elastic scattering. Reactor dynamics - Point reactor model: prompt and delayed transients - Practical applications - Reactivity variations and control Nuclear safety principles - Defense in Depth - Radiation protection - Design Basis Accidents - Beyond Design Basis Accidents\u00a0 phenomenology - Fukushima Accident Nuclear Reactor Technology - Gen-II/III, active & passive safety systems - Gen-IV - reactor concepts: SFR, LFR, HTR, MSR Non-power applications of nuclear engineering - research reactors - isotope production\u00a0- medical and irradiation applications - \u00a0 Waste Management - transport, intermediate storage - waste conditioning - geological disposal and siting - reprocessing - Partitioning & Transmutation \u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Elaborate on neutron diffusion equationFormulate approximations to solving the diffusion equation for simple systemsDescribe various nuclear reactors conceptsExplain nuclear safety principles Assessment methods Oral (100%)' 25 min without preparation. Closed book."}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-711", "name": "Information Science in Engineering", "description": "An introduction to engineering-relevant computer-science concepts that are hardware and software independent. Outcomes include knowledge of the limits of computing, improved ability to understand the true value of new developments and capabilities to effectively select good computing methodologies Content The course is divided into two parts. The first part deals with concepts such as complexity, task analysis as well as strategies for representation and reasoning using engineering knowledge (1 week). The second part (1 week 1 month later) is devoted to seminars by Doctoral candidates on selected topics complemented by a \"critique\" and supplementary theoretical background by the teacher. Keywords logic, complexity, search and optimisation, machine learning, data-base design Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Some knowledge of programming is useful but it is not essential"}
{"courseId": "CH-451", "name": "Applied molecular quantum chemistry", "description": "Introduction of the bases allowing the computation of chemical reactions and spectroscopic properties of molecules or ions in the gas phase and in solution using quantum chemical methods. Content Basic Items Molecular properties Computational methods Single configuration wavefunctions Multi configuration wavefunctions Treatment of electron correlation Spin-orbit coupling Symmetry (molecule, molecular orbital, wavefunction) Solvation Computation of thermodynamic variables.\u00a0Visible spectroscopy Metal-centered (d-d) transitions.\u00a0Chemical reactions Substitution reactions Rearrangements Electron transfer Keywords Wavefunction theory, density functional theory Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course This course is based on the following knowledge: bases of quantum chemistry, group theory (point groupes), theory of the electronic structure of transition metals, UV-vis spectroscopy and reactions (substitutions and electron transfer) of transition metal complexes. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Apply computational methods with knowledge of their approximations and limitations.Use of symmetry, point groups, and double groups.Compute stationary points and trajectories on a potential energy surface.Apply solvation models.Computation of experimental quantities such as thermodynamic variables, rate constants, and spectroscopic data.Analyze the existence and geometry of penta-, hexa-, and hepta-coordinated transition metal complexes.Analyze the operability of the A, I, and D substitution mechanisms on the basis of electronic structure - reactivity relationships.Compute paramters of electron transfer reactions such as the electronic coupling matrix element, the reorganizational energy, and reduction potentials.Compute spin-orbit coupling. Teaching methods Ex cathedra with exercises and projects on the computer. Assessment methods 1) Project: computations with the GAMESS program system, presentation at the end of the semester. 0 - 2 points. 2) Oral examination on the topics of the course, duration: 30 minutes. 0 - 3 points. Supervision Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "BIO-692", "name": "Symmetry and Conservation in the Cell", "description": "This course aims to show students how the physical principles of conservation, symmetry and locality influence the dynamics of living organisms at the molecular and cellular level. Computer simulations are used to explore examples of cellular processes illustrating these principles. Content This course aims to show students how the physical principles of conservation, symmetry and locality influence the dynamics of living organisms at the molecular and cellular level. We start with simple equations that embody a physical principle and compare them with experiments on cells or model systems. The importance of the local environment on dynamics at the molecular scale is introduced, and its influence on typical molecular-scale motions explored, including particle diffusion, the forces between particles in various media, and self-assembly of molecules into larger aggregates. Symmetric and asymmetric random processes are explored in 1, 2 and 3 dimensions, and the combined effects of symmetry, in the sense of invariance under an operation, and mass conservation, or the re-use of a limited amount of matter, are shown to constrain how molecular aggregates assemble, stabilise or disassemble. Computer simulations of simple model systems are used as examples for exploration in problems and a semester project. The primary goal of the course is to show students how nature takes advantage of symmetry and conservation, or selectively breaks them, to achieve specific cellular goals, and to understand how computer simulations can be used to study these processes. Lecture 1 - Overview of the biophysics of a cell at different length scales: a 'day in the life of a cell' Lecture 2 - Constructing mathematical models, Random Walks (RW) in 1, 2 and 3 dimensions. Lecture 3 - RW part 2, Langevin equation and diffusion processes in the cell Lecture 4 - RW part 3,\u00a0 scaling laws for polymers, self-avoiding versus phantom polymers, entropic spring, stiff asymmetric filaments and filament self-assembly and growth Lecture 5 - Linear RW model of neurite growth, branched polymers as models of neurons Lecture 6 - Self-assembly in the cell; oil droplet coarsening, vesicle self-assembly, crowding effects on diffusion and reactions in cells Lecture 7 - Overview of computer simulations relevant to molecular processes in the cell Lecture 8 - Computer Simulation fundamentals: initial config, BCs, PBCs, observables, statistics, and errors Lecture 9 - Computer Simulations, part 2,\u00a0 simulating different scales in a cell, Atomistic MD, mesoscopic DPD, BD, MC, what does each type of simulation get right at what cost? Lecture 10 - Membranes, influence of lipid molecular shape and symmetry on self-assembly Lecture 11 - Membranes part 2, fluid and solid membranes Lecture 12 - Membranes part 3, not only a barrier, Litster theory of pore formation, pore shape fluctuations at reduced line tension, localised pore formation in vesicle fusion, endocytosis and exocytosis Lecture 13 - Harnessing symmetry in cellular processes: why do lipids have two hydrocarbon tails? Nanoparticles and their \u00a0interactions with membranes Lecture 14 - Project presentations As part of the exercises and project, students will be expected to solve simplified models of diffusion processes in a cell using differential equations; set up and run a Dissipative Particle Dynamics simulation (the executable code and sample input files for modification will be provided), analyse the simulation output and present it in the form of time-averaged observables with an error estimation, and as time series plots. Learning Outcomes -Choose and justify which molecular simulation techniques are suitable for simulating selected cellular processes; solve simplified dynamical models relevant to a cell; and explain how the symmetry of molecules and aggregates influences cellular\u00a0 properties \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 Note Because of the limited size of the class, please sign up by contacting edne@epfl.ch Keywords Membrane,\u00a0 organelle, lipid, vesicle, nanoparticle, diffusion equations, simulation, molecular shape, symmetry, random walk"}
{"courseId": "MSE-422", "name": "Advanced metallurgy", "description": "This course covers advanced metals and alloys both in terms of specific alloy classes (e.g. Ni-base, Ti-base, Mg-base, precious metals, High Entropy alloys, Metallic glasses) as well as general concepts (e.g. electrical and thermal properties, general characteristics of metallic melts and solids). Content The course's goal is to enlarge the field of knowledge of students beyond the classical three metals and alloy classes (i.e. iron and steel, aluminium, copper and their alloys) and to deepen the understanding of general characteristics of metals and alloys both in the liquid and in the solid state. In particular the technological important classes of Ni-base, Ti-base, and Mg-base alloys will be discussed allong with precious metal metallurgy and intermetallics and also touching on some of the more modern developments e.g. metallic glasses and high entropy alloys. Special purpose metallic materials will be treated as well. The students will be introduced to hands-on thermodynamical stability calculations involving (solid) solutions, including potential reactions with crucible material. Another purpose is install the capacity to estimate certain properties based on a set of rules of thumb and knowledge of the phase diagram of the system at hand. Some quantitative models based on electronic theory (e.g. phase stability, heat of mixing) will be discussed as well. Keywords Thermophysical characteristics of liquid metals Interactions between liquid metals and the environment\u00a0 Thermodynamic descriptions of the liquid metal phase Frozen-in liquid metals'metallic glasses Thermodynamics of multicomponent systems Ni-base alloys Ti-base alloys Precious metals Mg-base alloys Intermetallics Special purpose metals and alloys High entropy alloys Electronic properties of metals Learning Prerequisites Required courses Physics I-IV, Metals and Alloys, Phase transformation, Thermodynamics of mixtures,\u00a0 Recommended courses Solid state physics Important concepts to start the course Understanding phase diagrams Quantum mechanics \"Free\" electrons in a metal Phase transformations\u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate the stability of various phases against a metallic meltEstimate the evolution of the electrical and thermal conductivity of an alloy with temperatureSketch the general physical and mechanical properties of the dominant metals and alloysPropose adequate metals and alloys for a given set of requirementsJudge the veracity of tabulated values in Handbooks Transversal skills Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking Teaching methods Ex-Cathedra, exercises Expected student activities Pondering problems to find what they need to know next and what they do not know yet (learning by doing). \u00a0 Assessment methods exam"}
{"courseId": "ENV-615", "name": "Environmental Economics for Engineers", "description": "Students get an introduction to economics applied to environmental issues, in particular climate change. They learn how to assess environmental impacts and natural resources, and how to assess and model environmental regulation. Content Introduction to economics: willingness to pay, preferences, demand, supply, markets, prices and elasticities (3h, PT) Economic decision making: social welfare function, Pareto principle, cost-benefit analysis, rationality (3h, PT) Assessment of economic impacts and valuation of natural resources (6h, PT) Environmental policy (6h, MV) Applied environmental economic modeling (15h, FV) Economics of climate change (12h, FV) Adaptation to climate change (3h, MV) Exam (3h) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: ArgueContextualiseCritiqueDefendAnalyze Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Take account of the social and human dimensions of the engineering profession.Take responsibility for environmental impacts of her/ his actions and decisions.Make an oral presentation.Summarize an article or a technical report. Teaching methods Interactive lectures and exercises Expected student activities Among other, to read, comment and present a scientific paper in class. Assessment methods Oral presentation and one or two written examens"}
{"courseId": "MGT-407", "name": "Economics of innovation & management in energy", "description": "This course explores the theoretical and empirical perspectives on individual and industrial demand, supply, public policies including (de)regulation and management, in the energy sectors (oil, natural gas and electricity). Content Market equilibrium and market failure Economic characteristics of energy, sustainability Regulation in the energy sectors Geopolitical and environmental aspects Market structure and management in the energy sectors Innovation opportunities & incentives Remark: the course will be taught the first 7 weeks of the semester Keywords Energy - Energy economics - Energy regulation - Energy innovation - Energy management Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the main economic and political forces behind energy demand and supply as well as the rationales for economic policy in the energy sectorsUse economic tools and principles to analyze energy issuesFormulate energy policy instruments Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Make an oral presentation.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Lectures by the course instructor Seminars by experts from the energy sectors Presentations of projects by participating students Expected student activities Attendance at lectures Doing a short project in groups Assessment methods Projects carried out during the course: Oral presentation and slides: 40% Written test: 60% Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No Others Contact by email: christian.jaag@epfl.ch"}
{"courseId": "HUM-422(a)", "name": "Understanding modern Switzerland I", "description": "This course provides a general introduction to Swiss history, its culture, its economy and its political system since 1848 until today. Content PLEASE NOTE THAT THIS COURSE IS FOR FOREIGN STUDENTS ONLY (i.e. students who did not attend Swiss schools before University).\u00a0During the fall semester, two-hour lectures will give a general introduction to Swiss history, culture, economy and politics and discuss Swiss particularities such as the question of languages, the system of direct democracy, Switzerland's strong economic position, and the country's firm engagement on the international scene.\u00a0Study Plan: I. Mapping Switzerland II. Switzerland as a cultural and political labyrinth III. The Wealth of a nation IV. Switzerland and the world.\u00a0During the spring semester the students will be asked to write a research paper on a specific subject, which they will select in consultation with the instructors. Keywords Switzerland, history, culture, political institutions, economic structure, foreign policy. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze the key factors of the political, economic and social development of SwitzerlandContextualise the main phases of Swiss history from 1848 and replace them in their international contextSynthesize the main elements of Swiss history, its culture, its economy and its political systemArgue about the causes of the wealth of a nation Transversal skills Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking Teaching methods - Fall Semester: Ex cathedra courses- Spring Semester: Tutorial for research paper Expected student activities Active participation in class during the fall semester. Paper to be written within a group of 3-4 students on Swiss history during the spring semester (project in Swiss history oral presentation). Assessment methods Evaluation on a semester basis (grade associated to 3 ECTS). Fall semester evaluation is about knowledge acquisition and the elaboration of a project plan. Spring semester evaluation is about the realization of the project. More information is given at the beginning of the academic year. Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No"}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-605", "name": "Communication for Research Engineers", "description": "Communication proficiency is one of the most important results of a good PhD and postdoc experience and it is valued equally in academia and in industry. EPFL PhD students and postdocs are expected to have excellent written, oral and graphic skills in order to transmit their ideas effectively. Content The course is divided into modules that are related to typical communication tasks that PhDs and postdocs are expected to perform. There is also a module related to publication ethics. \u00a0 Teaching modules are \u00a0 - Writing clearly in English - Preparing a research abstract - Giving a seminar to a small audience - Preparing and presenting a poster - Writing a journal paper - Publication ethics - Writing a conference paper - Presenting a paper at a conference - Writing a research proposal - Chairing a seminar - Preparing a thesis document \u00a0 Interactive workshops will be held between teaching modules. Typical subjects are \u00a0 - Creating effective and understandable tables, images and figures - Simplify the message - Non-verbal communication including body language - Making yourself heard, understood and remembered - Know your audience - Designing a pilot project - Managing question-and-answer sessions - Communication and email etiquette - Aspects related to creating clear and unambiguous text \u00a0 The course begins with an assignment for each student to write and then present a ten-sentence summary of their research. The course is subsequently tailored to the average proficiency that is observed and to specific weaknesses that are identified. Note There will be a priority given to PhD students. The ethics module will be given in collaboration with personnel from the EPFL Library. Keywords Oral communicationTechnical writing and graphics for engineers Learning Prerequisites Required courses None Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Demonstrate improved oral, written and graphical communication skills for engineering research Teaching methods Lectures\u00a0 Workshops Expected student activities Short written texts Short films of 5-minute presentations"}
{"courseId": "EE-365", "name": "Power electronics", "description": "The basic applications of power electronic systems will be presented, and the relationship between the application and converter structure and circuit will be set in evidence. Content Applications in the field of electrical drives with variable speedApplications in the field of classical energy production and transport,compensation of reactive power and power filtering.Applications in the field of renewable electrical energyApplications in electrical traction Learning Prerequisites Required courses Energy conversion Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Understand a power electronics systemUnderstand the operation of power electronics applications Assessment methods Written"}
{"courseId": "CH-629(1)", "name": "Current Topics in Chemical Biology 1", "description": "PhD students can broaden their horizon in the field of chemical biology by listening to 14 different invited speakers per semester who talk about their recent research. The PhD students get the opportunity to also personally meet the speakers. Content 14 lectures per semester about resarch activities of invited speakers per semester. The talks will cover diverse topics across the field of chemical biology. The themes may include but are not limited to the following ones: study of chemical mechanisms in biology, understanding natural biological systems using chemical and biological tools, expanding biology through chemistry, development and application of chemical or biochemical techniques, drug development with chemical or biological tools, etc. \u00a0 The speakers and talk titles will be announced at the beginning of each semester on a website. Note Enrolment: edch@epfl.ch Next session Fall 2017 Keywords chemical biology, research talks Learning Prerequisites Required courses M.Sc. in chemistry, biochemistry, biology or a related science"}
{"courseId": "ME-403", "name": "Applied mechanical design", "description": "Students will be exposed to hands-on design problems throughout the term. They will acquire methodologies to (1) address open ended engineering problems, (2) cultivate creativity, (3) support decision making and (4) develop problem solving abilities. Content This project based course addresses students interested in mechanical design. Students will work in groups on a particular design problem throughout the course. Starting from customer specifications the groups will have to understand the problem at hand, perform functional decomposition, generate solutions, select basic concepts while justifying their decision, mathematically model, pre-design and then design the concept to fulfill the customer specifications. At the end of the term the students will present their concept to the class and to potential customers. The practical work of this course will be continuously accompanied by theoretical aspects and by insights into the design process. Appropriate methodologies and tools will be presented as a function of the project progress and requirements. Keywords Mechanical design Design methodology Design process Creativity Learning Prerequisites Required courses Completed Bachelor in Mechanical Engineering Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze/listen to the costumer requests and define the specifications, CP3List the functions of an existing or new product based on the specifications, CP4Choose the main solutions and identify the respective components to fulfill one function, taking into account the performance, technology and price constraints, CP5Evaluate the methodological choices for the building of a model and validate the results with respect to the analysis and modeling objectives, CP9Choose material and the relative treatments based on its use, performance and compatibility with the manufacturing process of the final product, CP13Design a system based on the specifications utilizing suitable tools, CP14Identify the class, the constitutive elements and the performances of a machine or a mechanical system, CP15 Transversal skills Write a scientific or technical report.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles. Teaching methods Ex-cathedra Projet"}
{"courseId": "MSE-643", "name": "Optical Materials: Fundamental concepts and recent developments", "description": "In this class we will review the fundamental origin of the optical properties exhibited by different classes of materials. We will then give examples of the most up-to-date research on optical materials in a few growing scientific and technological fields. Content The exploitation of the optical properties of materials is becoming a key aspect in a growing variety of fields beyond telecommunication, such as energy harvesting and saving, health care and life sciences, and sensing and monitoring. Scientists and engineers in these fields of application are very likely to face challenges associated with the understanding of light interaction with different types of materials and configurations. In this course we will present the fundamental concepts behind light propagation in materials and light-matter interaction. The optical properties of different classes of materials will be introduced and explained. This will give us the basis to discuss up-to-date research activities in the field of optical materials for light transport and transmission (optical fibres, waveguides and transparent conducting materials), light absorption and emission (photodetectors and photovoltaic devices, LEDs) and light management solutions (photonic crystals, plasmonics, metamaterials). ''' Keywords optical properties of materials Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basic knowledge in waves physics, Optics and solid state physics."}
{"courseId": "MGT-469", "name": "Presentation skills", "description": "In this course students learn how make an effective presentation, including how to make an appropriate introduction, organize information, assess and connect with diverse audiences, create effective visual support materials, close a presentation and survive and conquer a question and answer session. Content What is a presentation and why do we make them? Elements of an effective presentation Goals for differnt types of presentations Expectations of culturally diverse audiences and strategies for meeting them Practice preparing and delivering the different parts of a presentation Creating and delivering a \"pitch\" Lots of work on delivery (voice, posture, gestures, non-verbal elements) Giving presentations with video feedback (x 3) Giving a presentation as part of a group Keywords Presentation skills, English, interactive, video feedback Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course At least an intermediate level of English Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Define the basic elements of a complete and effective presentationDemonstrate the ability to create and deliver each element of an effective presentationExplore using the voice to its best effectInvestigate the differences in communication style between various cultural groupsPerform presentations with different goals and for different audiencesDetect one's strengths and weaknesses as a presenterOptimize one's strengths in delivery (voice, posture, gestures, non-verbals) Transversal skills Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals. Teaching methods Lecture, interactive exercises, delivering presentations and parts of presentations,video feedback. Expected student activities Speaking, presenting in front of a group, presenting as part of a group, preparing outside of class, giving and receiving feedback Assessment methods Continuous assessment combining: 25% Class participation 30% Mid-term: individual presentation 40% Final presentation in groups 5% Final reflection paper Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "MSE-704", "name": "3D Electron Microscopy and FIB-Nanotomography", "description": "The principles of 3D surface (SEM) reconstruction and its limitations will be explained. 3D volume reconstruction and tomography methods by electron microscopy (SEM/FIB and TEM) will be explained and compared with x-ray tomography. Content Physics of the different signals generated by electron beams and focused ion beams. Underlying physical principles for the acquisition of data sets for 3D reconstruction: interaction volumes, voxel (3 dimensional \"pixel\") size, mechanical stability issues for successful recon-struction. surface reconstruction (SEM), serial (parallel) sectioning (SEM/FIB and TEM), tilt series tomo-graphy (TEM) introduction to the use of software packages for 3D surface and volume reconstruction practical session about the 3D surface reconstruction by SEM practical session about 3D volume reconstruction by FIB nano-tomography practical session TEM tomography \u00a0 \u00a0 Keywords 3D reconstruction, serial sectioning, electron tomography, FIB Nano-tomography, scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron microscopy Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses background in electron microscopy: electron microscopy lecture 5 sem. Bachelor level or doctoral school SEM&TEM or equivalent"}
{"courseId": "MSE-636(a)", "name": "Scanning electron microscopy techniques (a)", "description": "This intensive course is intended for researchers who envisage to use scanning electron microscopy techniques for their research or who want to understand how to interpret SEM images and analytical results presented in scientific publications. Content This intensive course is intended for researchers who are potential new users of scanning electron microscopes. It will provide them with a basic understanding of the instruments, optics of SEM, the imaging modes, the associated analytical techniques EDS and EBSD, related theories of image formation.\u00a0Demonstrations will be given on the microscopes.\u00a0\u00a02x Year Spring (b) and autumn (a) Keywords SEM, FIB, ESEM"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-560", "name": "BioMEMS", "description": "This course covers the main applications of micro devices for life science and biomedical applications. The course is organized by application topic. It is also covering the basic physical, biological, chemical, technological concepts, which are presented as transversal introductory section Content Application topics (mini-chapters): DNA separation, extraction, amplification DNA arrays PCR, sequencing protein separation, arrays immunuassays, lateral flow assays, paper devices, multiplex asays Electrochemical sensors Impedance biosensors, cell based impedance mechanical biosensor microelectrode array, neurochips dielectrophoresis, electroporation, microflow cytometry, cell sorting drug delivery devices cell chips, cell arrays Basic concepts (transversal mini-chapters): key numbers technologies diffusion and dilution limit surface tension surface chemistries, reaction kinetics microfluidics electrode model, electrochemistry basics cell models electrokinetics Keywords microtechnology biosensor biomedical Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Capteurs (or equivalent) Technologies of microstructures Important concepts to start the course basic knowledge in physics, chemistry Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Illustrate applications of BioMEMS examplesDesign devices for specifics applicationsExplain basic principles involved in BioMEMS Teaching methods Course organized in mini-chapters, presented by application topic. The basic concepts are presented in betwen application topics Ecach mini-chapter or basic concept is presented in about 20 minutes, followed by 10 minutes discussion/question session Expected student activities read the basic concepts mini chapter before the class when it will be presented reply to some quizz along the course Assessment methods oral exam: A wtritten question is given to the student, he has 15 minutes for preparation and wtring on the question page. Then, the oral examination takes 15 minutes Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No Forum No"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-423", "name": "Plasma physics II", "description": "Following an introduction of the main plasma properties, the fundamental concepts of the kinetic theory of plasmas are introduced. Applications concerning laboratory, space, and astrophysical plasmas are discussed throughout the course. Content I Collisional and relaxation phenomena- Inelastic collisions: ionization and recombination, degree of ionization- Elastic collisions: Coulomb collisions- Isotropisation and thermalisation- Plasma resistivity and the runaway regimeII Transport in plasmas- Random walk and diffusion- Ambipolar and cross-field diffusion- Energy and particle confinementIII Waves in cold magnetized plasma- Dielectric tensor- Resonances and cut-offs- Parallel and perpendicular propagationIV Wave-particle interaction and kinetic description of waves in hotun-magnetized plasmas- The Vlasov-Maxwell model- Resonant wave-particle interaction and Landau damping- Stability criteria and streaming instabilities- Langmuir and ion-acoustic waves and instabilitiesV Waves in hot magnetized plasmasVI Examples of nonlinear effects\u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Electrodynamics, Plasma Physics I Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manipulate the fundamental elements of the plasma kinetic theory Teaching methods Ex cathedra and exercises in class"}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-513", "name": "Lab methods : biosafety", "description": "The course will help students to identify and manage laboratory hazards and to run a proper risk evaluation, with a particular focus on biological activities. Content Identification of dangers and risk analysisBiosafety principlesContainmentGood microbiological techniquesSafety cabinetsDecontamination, inactivation, sterilizationWorking safely with chemicalsToxicologyInfectious organismsViral vectorsWorking with animalsCase analysis Keywords Biosafety, risk, hazard Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bioengineering\u00a0 MA3 or Life Sciences and Technologies MA3 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manage a safe laboratory activityWork out / Determine laboratory hazards (chemical, biological and physical)Perform a biological risk analysisExplain the safety principles in viral vectorsUse safety devices and personal protective equipment (autoclave, biosafety cabinet, HEPA filter)Describe various inactivation and decontamination methodsEstablish an efficient waste management systemInvestigate accidents and incidents in laboratories Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Manage priorities.Respect the rules of the institution in which you are working.Take responsibility for environmental impacts of her/ his actions and decisions.Take responsibility for health and safety of self and others in a working context. Teaching methods Seminars, case analysis, written exercise, demonstrations and practical work. Expected student activities Preparatory readings (paper) Preparing and presenting case analysis Participating to practical exercises Assessment methods During semester: Case analysis and written control Supervision Others Course Timetable: Monday 28.11.16: 8:15-12:00 et 13:15-17:00 Tuesday 29.11.16: 8:15-12:00 et 13:15-17:00 Wednesday 30.11.16: 8:15-12:00 et 13:15-17:00 Thursday 01.12.16: 8:15-12:00 EXAMINATION: Date will be arranged with students according to their schedule"}
{"courseId": "COM-417", "name": "Advanced probability and applications", "description": "In this course, various aspects of probability theory are considered. The first part is devoted to the main theorems in the field (law of large numbers, central limit theorems), while the second part focuses on the theory of martingales in discrete time. Content I. Probability - sigma-fields, probability measures, random variables - independence, expectation - convergence of sequences of random variables - laws of large numbers- central limit theorem - concentration inequalities - moments II. Martingales - conditional expectation - definition and properties of a martingale - stopping times, optional stopping theorem - maximal inequalities - convergence theorems Keywords probability, measure theory, martingales, convergence theorems Learning Prerequisites Required courses Basic probability course Calculus courses Recommended courses complex analysis Important concepts to start the course This course is NOT an introductory course on probability: the students should have a good understanding and practice of basic probability concepts such as: distribution, expectation, variance, independence, conditional probability. The students should also be at ease with calculus. Complex analyisis is a plus, but is not required. On the other hand, no prior background on measure theory is needed for this course: we will go through the basic concepts one by one at the beginning. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Understand the foundations of probability theoryAcquire a solid knowledge of martingale theory Teaching methods Ex cathedra exercises Expected student activities active participation to exercise sessions Assessment methods Midterm 10%, homeworks 10%, exam 80% Resources Bibliography Sheldon M. Ross, Erol A. Pekoz,\u00a0 A Second Course in Probability,1st edition, www.ProbabilityBookstore.com, 2007. Jeffrey S. Rosenthal, A First Look at Rigorous Probability Theory,2nd edition, World Scientific, 2006. Geoffrey R. Grimmett, David R. Stirzaker, Probability and Random Processes,3rd edition, Oxford University Press, 2001. Richard Durrett, Probability: Theory and Examples,4th edition, Cambridge University Press, 2010. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que A Second Course in Probability / RossA First Look at Rigorous Probability Theory / RosenthalProbability and Random Processes / Grimmett Probability: Theory and Examples / Durrett Notes/Handbook available\u00a0 on the course website Websites http://ipgold.epfl.ch/~leveque/Advanced_Prob/"}
{"courseId": "EE-511", "name": "Sensors in medical instrumentation", "description": "Fundamental principles and methods used for physiological signal conditioning. Resistive, capacitive, inductive, piezoelectric and optical techniques used to detect and convert physiological information's to electrical signals. Laboratory and ambulatory devices for monitoring and therapy. Content 1. Physiological MesurandsBiopotentials; bioimpedance; mechanical, acoustic and thermal signals2. Noise in medical instrumentationSource and nature of the noise; noise reduction; instrumentation amplifierfor biopotential measurement3. Biopotential measurementElectrodes; ECG, EMG and EEG measurement4. Resistive sensorsThermistor and its biomedical applications; strain gage for themeasurement of blood pressure; force and accelerations of the body5. Inductive sensorsSimple and mutual inductance and its medical applications6. Capacitive sensorsRespiratory flow measurement by the gradient of pressure7. Piezoelectric sensorsForce platform, accelerometer, angular rate sensor for the measurementof tremors and body movements, ultrasound transducer : measurement ofpressure and flow rate8. Optical sensorsPhotoplethysmography; pulsed oxymetry9. Example of applications Keywords sensors, instrumentation, biomedical devices, physiological measurement, monitoring Learning Prerequisites Required courses courses en electrical circuit, basic electronics Recommended courses measuring systems or electronics or sensors Important concepts to start the course basic electronics, basic physics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose techniques detecting and convert physiological information's to electrical signalsExploit fundamental principles and methods used for physiological signal conditioningDesign measuring devicesInterpret error, noise in biomedical measuring systems Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, with exercises Expected student activities home work, short quizzes during semester Assessment methods Written Resources Bibliography Medical Instrumentation : Application and design, JG Webster Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Medical Instrumentation / Webster Notes/Handbook Slides copies (to be completed during the lectures) Polycopies (in French only)"}
{"courseId": "ChE-414", "name": "Thermodynamics of energy conversion and storage", "description": "The course is an introduction to the energy conversion. It focusses on the thermodynamics of the engines and systems for the conversion of energy from fossil fuels and renewable resources. The relevant aspects of modern energy conversion are treated and the potentials and limitations are estimated. Content ' Basic introduction into thermodynamics of energy conversion ' Energy demand and energy economy ' Resources and climat change ' Internal combustion engines (piston engines) ' Turbines' Nuclear power station ' Renewable energy sources' Solar thermal energy conversion' Wind power' Hydro power' Photovoltaics' Geothermal energy' Tides' Storage of renewable energy Keywords Energy conversion Efficiency Resources Renewable energy Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Work out / Determine the potential and limitations of the resourcesDescribe the various energy conversion technologiesExplain the thermodynamics of the energy conversion devicesAnalyze the relevant chemical reactionsCompare technologies and estimate the potentialAssess / Evaluate the performance of various energy conversion technologies Teaching methods Ex cathedra using Powerpoint slides. Examples will be shown to illustrate theory. Expected student activities Taking notes in the course hours. Solve the exercises. Assessment methods One final written exam. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "EE-583", "name": "Spacecraft avionics systems, architectures and processors", "description": "The course presents and analyses the different systems, architectures and components of spacecraft avionics (on board data handling and processing systems) controlling and commanding spacecraft and payloads (instruments). It will study typical bus structures (standard) used for S/C avionics. Content Introduction Classification of spacecraft \u00a0functions depending of mission profile and identification of requirements and functions of on board data handling systems Architecture Typical spacecraft structure, system and major subsystem, redundancy management, data flow, telematics, service module, payloads Space environment threads to electronics systems and mitigation tecnics On board electronics susceptibilty to space radiation environment, radiation hardness, radiation mitigation techniques, HW and SW error detection and correction\u00a0 Components and subsystems On board microprocessors and microcontrollers, on board communication buses and interfaces, mass memories, attitude and orbit control subsystems, payloads data processing, telemetry and telecommands\u00a0 Standards and system modelisation Modelisation of flight avioncs systems, spacecarft onboard interface services SOIS, Standard Space links protocols,\u00a0 standard data units, spacecraft synchronization time, buses and networks \u00a0 www.ecss.nl Cases studies examples of flight avionics on International Space Station ISS, Automated Transfer Vehicle ATV, ExoMars (Rover, Lander and Orbiter)\u00a0 Avionics on CAN\u00a0 Exercices Implement simple avioncs system components on an advanced design simulation and verification tool http://vector.com/ \u00a0 Keywords avionics spacecraft telecommand/telemetry intelligent distributed systems spacecraft onboard interfaces services\u00a0 space enviroment spacecraft electronics,\u00a0 rad hard components on board processors and systems ECSS communication standards \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Classify space mission on avionics requirementsAnalyze spacecraft avionics requirementsDesign flight avionics systemsModel a distributed intelligent system on CAN baseOrder different on board communication bus systemsRecognize threads and requirements for on board electronics componentsImplement a simulated avionics components on design toolAssess / Evaluate flight avionics requirements Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Lecture with exercices in Space Center lab Expected student activities exercice on CANoe implement some function of an flight avionics system , based on distributed intelligent system peer to peer communication system CAN."}
{"courseId": "CH-161(en)", "name": "General chemistry (English)", "description": "This course aims at the acquisition of essential notions on the structure of matter, chemical equilibria and reactivity. Theoretical teaching and exercise provide the methodology to analyze and solve by reasoning and calculation novel problems of general chemistry. Content 1. Atomic theory\u00a0: Electronic structure of atoms, atomic orbitals, spectroscopy, the periodic table 2. Chemical bonding : Lewis dot structures, octet rule, ionic bond, covalent bond, bond energy, VSEPR model, geometry of molecules, molecular orbitals, dipolar moment, van der Waals and London forces, intermolecular bonds. 3. Chemical quantities\u00a0: Atomic/molecular mass, isotopes, notion of mole, chemical formulas, concentrations. 4. Chemical reactions and st\u0153chiometry\u00a0: Chemical equations, limiting reactant, electrolytes, ideal gas law, partial pressures. 5. Thermochemistry\u00a0: Internal energy, first principle of thermodynamics, enthalpy of physical and chemical transformations, entropy, second principle, Gibbs free energy. 6. Chemical equilibria\u00a0: Gibbs free energy in a mixture, chemical potential and activity, reaction quotient, equilibrium constant, influence of reactions parameters on equilibria. 7. Properties of solutions\u00a0: Dissolution and solvation, solubility of solids, Raoult's and Henry's laws, colligative properties of solution (boiling point elevation, freezing point depression, osmotic pressure). 8. Proton transfer\u00a0: Acid-base equilibria: Br\u00f8nsted-Lowry theory, acid-base couples, ionization constant, pH scale, calculation of pH values, acid-base titration. 9. Electron transfer\u00a0: Electrochemistry: Balancing redox equations, electrochemical cells, standard potentials, batteries and rechargeable cells, Nernst's equation, corrosion, Faraday's law, electrolysis. 10. Chemical kinetics\u00a0: Reaction rate, rate law, molecularity and reaction order, activated complex theory, Arrhenius' law, catalysis. Keywords Electronic structure of atoms, chemical bonds, stoechiometry, thermochemistry, thermodynamic equilibria, acids and bases, redox processes, chemical kinetics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the structure and basic properties of atomsDescribe the various types of chemical bondsUse chemical quantities to make stoechiometric calculationsPredict quantitatively energy exchanges associated to physical and chemical transformationsApply the principles of thermodynamics to solve equilibrium problemsCompute the pH value of an aqueous solution by applying adequate approximationsWork out / Determine the spontaneous direction, the energetics, and the equilibrium of a redox reactionEstablish the rate law of a reaction from experimental data or a given mechanismApply integrated rate laws and determine the kinetics of a reaction at different temperaturesAnalyze and solve by reasoning and calculation quantitative problems related to the points here above Teaching methods Course with exercises Assessment methods Written exam Supervision Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "CS-714", "name": "Games for Crowds and Networks", "description": "We will focus on the complex interplay between individuals and the networks/crowds that they form. We will study a variety of real-world problems on socioeconomic networks/crowds from the perspective of game theory, and develop the techniques required to rigorously analyze these problems. Content Learning outcomes:Students will learn core concepts from game theory including but not limited to: strategic/extensive form, pure/mixed strategies, equilibrium concepts, mechanism design, proper scoring rules, social welfare and price of anarchy.Students will become familiar with a variety of application areas, and understand how to model and approach them from a game theoretic point of view.Students will directly apply this knowledge in a mini-project for the cour Content: Introduction to Game Theory Strategic Network Formation Auctions and Targetting Political and Signed Networks Evolution and Ethics Information Cascades Stability and Tipping Points Matching Markets Prediction Markets Eliciting truthful behavior Bargaining and Power in Networks Keywords Game theory, networks, crowds, markets, aggregate behavior"}
{"courseId": "MATH-456", "name": "Numerical Analysis and Computational Mathematics", "description": "The course provides an introduction to scientific computing. Several numerical methods are presented for the computer solution of mathematical problems arising in different applications. The software MATLAB is used to solve the problems and verify the theoretical properties of the numerical methods. Content Numerical approximation of nonlinear equations. Interpolation, approximation of functions and data. Numerical integration and derivation. Numerical Linear Algebra (direct and iterative methods). Numerical approximation of eigenvalues' problems. Numerical methods for Ordinary Differential Equations. Stability, conditioning, and convergence properties of the numerical methods; error analysis. Implementation of the numerical algorithms in MATLAB. Keywords Numerical Analysis; Computational Mathematics; numerical approximation; numerical algorithms; MATLAB. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Analysis (Calculus); Linear Algebra. Important concepts to start the course Basic knowledge of MATLAB or GNU Octave software; basic programming. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose a numerical method for solving a specific mathematical problem.Interpret the numerical results based on the theory.Apply and implement the numerical algorithms for the solution of mathematical problems.Assess / Evaluate the numerical errors.State , prove, and validate the theoretical properties of the numerical methods.Describe the numerical methods. Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsAccess and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lectures; theoretical and practical exercises in the computer room. Expected student activities Attending the lectures and exercises' sessions. Solving and completing the assigned exercises during and after the exercises' sessions. Assessment methods Written exam, in the computer room. The exam covers all the theoretical and practical arguments considered at the lectures and exercises. Part of the questions and problems are solved numerically with MATLAB; the exam includes the implementation and programming of numerical algorithms in MATLAB. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "BIO-659", "name": "Advanced Microscopy for Life Science", "description": "For further information, please get in contact with the instructor or have a look on the following web-site: http://biop.epfl.ch/ Content \u00a0 ' Basic optical principles' Light microscopy, fluorescence microscopy' Confocal microscopy' Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET)' Photobleaching, photoactivation techniques, Fluorescence Recovery after Photobleaching (FRAP)' Structured Illumination microscopy' Localization techniques (PALM, STORM)' Stimulated emission depletion microscopy (STED) \u00a0 Note Places are limited (16 students) due to hand-on sessions. The selection (if necessary) will be made based on the scientific needs, expressed in a letter of intent (maximally 2000 characters) by the PhD student. It should contain a brief description of the project emphasizing the need of advanced light-microscopy methods.For further information please get in contact with the instructor or have a look on the following web-site: http://biop.epfl.ch/ Keywords Light-microscopy, live-cell imaging, high/super resolution light microscopy. Assessment methods Presentation"}
{"courseId": "AR-201(c)", "name": "Th\u00e9orie et critique du projet BA3 (De Vylder & Taillieu)", "description": "A house is the simple topic of this studio. A matter of simple complexity. Defining a space by its \"corner\"; looking for a \"cascade\" of rooms; arriving at the simple complexity of a \"house\". Learning about a house is learning about architecture. That house in two different contexts. A house twice. Content CUT CON\u00adSTRUCT CONCEIVE As studio architecten de vylder vinck taillieu always deals with the idea of the reference - what is your frame of reference - but also the idea of the prac\u00adtice - on one hand working on many different projects at the same time on the other hand starting from the detail immediately -; the studio is not only looking for a possible architecture regarding a simulated exercise but rather a possible architect in a studio simulating a practice. Observation - rather than analyze - and imagination - rather than concept - are part of this ap\u00adproach. A strong belief in the variety of media - from handmade drawing to crafted modeling not only as a result rather as an ongoing method - are the instruments on the table. An intense way of working - as an intense way of life ' is the credo. Studio architecten de vylder vinck taillieu announces studio CUT CON\u00adSTRUCT CONCEIVE. Cut out's from drawings and pictures are the starting point. Drawings of never realized houses will be the starting point for the exercises. As the previous studio - school year 2014-2015 - called CORNER CASCADE COMPLEXITY starts from the corner detail to find back in the final project all materiality not as an additive but as a fundament of the space; and the studio NEVER EVER YOURS ' school year 2015-2016 - aimed the same idea starting from drawings and models of never realized projects; the difference in this studio - school year 2016-2017 - as it is called CUT CON\u00adSTRUCT CONCEIVE is the imagination since it is about cut out's it is even more challenging. Even being challenged by more than one cut out. The context is Belgium once again. From Brussels to Ostend. From Brussels to Charleroi. Seven totally different venues in three different cities. Cities that make Belgium. Cities that are Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. Your first practice will be a Belgian practice. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Understanding how detail makes space, how space makes detail or one cannot be without the other one.Finding the reference and finding the personal.Evolving and revolving by drawing and model and arriving by drawing and model. Teaching methods - movements - The studio will debate in-group and guide in person; depending on the evolution of the studio. This will be decided at the very moment in order to achieve the best progress. The studio is organised in 3 parts; over 2 semesters; in 1 year. Those parts are also called movements. part 1: movement I 'corner' semester I part 2 : movement II 'cascade' semester I part 3 : movement III 'complexity' semester II. Eventually special small short term in between exercises might be introduced; if it occurs and as a matter of method of process. Expected student activities - continuous - Student will present every week the evolution ; by all media: model and drawing. A report book will keep the evolutions together."}
{"courseId": "CH-244", "name": "Quantum chemistry", "description": "Introduction to Quantum Mechanics with examples related to chemistry Content Introduction and historical perspective The Time Independent Schr\u00f6dinger equation and applications to simple systems Measurements in quantum mechanical systems Operator formulation of the Schr\u00f6dinger Equation Postulates of quantum mechanics Time dependent Schr\u00f6dinger equation The harmonic oscillator Three dimensional systems Angular momentum The hydrogen atom Approximation methods Many electron atoms Electron spin and the Pauli principle Term symbols and coupling of angular momentum Quantum mechanical treatment of molecules Electronic structure calculations \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Formulate quantum mechanical conceptsDerive quantum mechanical operatorsSolve eigen value equationsSolve the Schrodinger equation for simple systemsApply quantum mechanical concepts to simple problemsUse approximation methodsFormulate the relation between spin and the Pauli Exclusion principle and discuss the implications for chemistryDerive term symbols for atoms and moleculesDiscuss the principles of molecular bonding Teaching methods Ex Cathedra with excersise sessions Expected student activities Work on the exercises at home Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Resources Bibliography Primary Reference:\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 D. A. McQuarrie, Quantum Chemistry \u00a0 Secondary References:\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 P. W. Atkins, Molecular Quantum Mechanics Cohen-Tannoudji, Diu, and Lalo\u00eb, Quantum Mechanics B.H. Bransden and C.J. Joachain, Introduction to Quantum Mechanics Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Quantum chemistry / McQuarrieMolecular quantum mechanics / AtkinsQuantum mechanics / Cohen-TannoudjiQuantum mechanics / Bransden Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=2381"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-401", "name": "Machine learning programming", "description": "This is a practice-based course, where students program algorithms in machine learning and evaluate the performance of the algorithm thoroughly using real-world dataset. Content This programming class complements courses on machine learning given in the school. It offers students the possibility to\u00a0 understand some machine learning algorithms in depth by programming them and testing them rigorously. Students will be working in team of two. They will be offered a choice of methods to program. Programming can be done in matlab or C/C . Proper evaluation of machine learning will be stressed out. Students will learn about various methods to evaluate machine learning methods (crossvalidation, grid search, F-measure, ROC curve, etc) and will be asked to put these in practice. \u00a0 Keywords Programming in C/C or matlab. Machine Learning. Statistics. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Students must have taken a machine learning course or follow one during the same semester. This programming class is meant to complement the Applied Machine Learning course, but can also complement other machine learning courses given at EPFL. Recommended courses Applied Machine Learning - MICRO-455 Pattern Classification and Machine Learning: CS-433 Data Analysis and Model Classification - EE-516 \u00a0 Important concepts to start the course Basic notions in Machine Learning: Supervised versus unsupervised learning Classification, non-linear regression, clustering Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Apply Knowledge in Machine LearningAssess / Evaluate Machine Learning AlgorithmsChoose Appropriate model and data Transversal skills Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Computer-based practice session. Some short ex-cathedra lectures will be given at the beginning of the class. Expected student activities Attendance to all sessions is necessary to progress rapidly and benefit from assistants' support. Assessment methods The students will be evaluated on the report and code handed out at the end of the course. Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes Resources Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Kernel Methods for Pattern Analysis / Shawe-TaylorPattern Recognition and Machine Learning / BishopLearning with Kernels / ScholkopfPattern Classification / DudaInformation Theory, Inference and Learning Algorithms / MackaySpiking Neuron Models / GerstnerIndependent Component Analysis / HyvarinenSelf-organizing Maps / KohonenIntroduction to Neural Networks / Haykins"}
{"courseId": "BIO-671", "name": "Practical - Meylan Lab", "description": "To comprehend the function of several signaling pathways during lung tumor development, to become familiar with some techniques to detect and manipulate pathway activities, to make a critical analysis of primary research papers in the field of lung tumor biology, to learn about the recent developme Content The objectives are: 1- To comprehend the function of several signaling pathways during lung tumor development.2- To become familiar with some techniques to detect and manipulate pathway activities.3- To make a critical analysis of primary research papers in the field of lung tumor biology.4- To learn about the recent developments and uses of genetically-engineered mouse models of lung cancer.5- To perform analyses of lung tumor volumes from micro-computed tomography. Theoretical part:- Lecture and discussion on a selection of signaling pathways that contribute to the progression of lung cancer.- Discussion and critical analysis of primary research publications.\u00a0Practical:- Preparation of human lung tumor cell lines, transient transfection to modulate a selected pathway. Cell harvesting, followed by pathway activity measurement using real-time PCR, luciferase assay or Western blotting. - Site-directed mutagenesis to create mutant cDNA.- Lung tumor growth monitoring by micro-computed tomography.- Immunohistochemistry from lung tumor sections. Note Note that while the course is open to all first year EPFL doctoral students, priority will be given to EDMS students, given that they are mandated to take three of EDMS practical modules. Doctoral students from the Meylan laboratory cannot take this course. Access is limited to 3 students. Keywords Lung cancer, mouse models of cancer, signaling pathways. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses None"}
{"courseId": "EE-514", "name": "Brain-computer interaction", "description": "How to provide a direct interaction between the human neural system and machines aiming to augment human capabilities, especially of disabled people. Description of the brain signals and the algorithms (signal processing & machine learning) for recognizing subjects' intents and cognitive states. Content 1.Introduction 2. Basic Neurology ML 3. Multiunit Recording 4. Electroencephalogram (EEG) & Inverse Methods 5. EEG-based BCI and Paradigms 6. Electrocorticogram (ECoG) 7. Beyond Motor-related Signals for BCI 8. Cognitive Signals for Brain Interaction 9. BCI Applications Keywords brain-computer interfaces, brain-machine interfaces, neuroprosthetics, pattern recognition, brain signal processing, human physiological signals, neuroscience,\u00a0human-computer interaction Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Pattern recognition (for instance, Data Analysis and Model Classification) Signal Processing Neuroscience and Cognitive Neuroscience Important concepts to start the course Pattern recognition: feature selection, linear models for classification and regression (quick introduction at the beginning of the course) Signal processing: Frequency domain analysis, filtering (basic introduction at the beginning of the course) Matlab programming (tutorial provided at the beginning of the course) \u00a0 Teaching methods Lectures and project based on students' own experiments. Expected student activities Students will have to run their own experiments on a protocol of their choice. Then, they will analyze the recorded brain signals (EEG) and provide a written report. Assessment methods Written exam. Final grade: 60% Exam, 40% Exercises."}
{"courseId": "ENG-627", "name": "Academic Writing for Doctoral Students", "description": "This module will help participants face the challenge of writing a thesis in English. We will focus on the language skills necessary to achieve effectiveness in academic writing, namely the acquisition and use of formal vocabulary and the revision and consolidation of grammar for accurate and concis Content Learning outcomes To use the types of knowledge and information management needed for theses writing To know how to report quantitative and qualitative research and how to use references and citation without plagiarism To write clear, well-structured academic texts of some length, with a high degree of grammatical accuracy and in an appropriate style (articles, dissertations, etc.) To apply the conventions, language and principles of academic writing in one's own field To demonstrate skills in synthesizing and evaluating research information To understand intercultural differences in research writing To edit one's own and colleagues' texts, providing constructive feedback and improving them stylistically and grammatically Note Conditions to obtain ECTS credits: 80% presence, active participation Tasks and tests completed satisfactorily The European Language Portfolio, well-organised and completed according to the instructions above"}
{"courseId": "AR-402(z)", "name": "Studio MA2 (L\u00fctjens et Padmanabhan)", "description": "The studio explores the subject of urban housing with an emphasis on the relationship between urban space, facades and the inner spatial structure of the building and the apartment. Content See AR-401(z) Th\u00e9orie et critique du projet MA1. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Develop a design of an urban apartment building based on a pair of architectural references given by the professors, including highly articulate facades and floor plans that possess a spatial structure that reflects the urban condition.Represent their designs in large-scale working models of the building\u00e2\u0080\u0099s exterior and interior, through model photography and in conventional architectural drawings.Discuss their project ideas in terms of gestalt, expression, interior spatial structure and in relationship to the transformation of the architectural references.Reflect on their design experience within the wider cultural context of the semester. Teaching methods The students will work in groups of two. After two preliminary exercises, the students will work on their project and develop it further during the semester. Weekly desk critiques and three interim critiques will structure the semester. Two lectures, a seminar and a compulsory study trip will provide the cultural and intellectual context to the semester."}
{"courseId": "EE-207", "name": "Measuring systems laboratory work", "description": "Students will acquire basic knowledge of computer-driven data acquisition using labview programming and DAQ hardware. This knowledge will be put into practice by acquiring analog and digital signals, characterizing AD/DA converters, displacement sensors and other simple measurement systems. Content TP1: Introduction to LabVIEW TP2: Acquisition system TP3: Measuring devices TP4: Time and frequency analysis TP5: Displacement sensor TP6: ECG monitoring Learning Prerequisites Required courses EE-206 Measuring systems Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design an appropriate measurement circuitDesign the labview code addapted to a measurement problemCarry out the measurementInterpret measurement results Teaching methods Laboratory Expected student activities Attending laboratory exercises (obligatory) Preparing for lab exercises in the form of a written summary Writing a laboratory notebook Assessment methods Preparation level at the start of each laboratory Laboratory notebook Writen lab test at the end of the semester"}
{"courseId": "EE-565", "name": "Industrial electronics II", "description": "The control aspects bounded to power electronic systems will bepresented.Students will learn modeling of power circuits and control functions, together with modeling of electrical machines, also grid connected systems. Content IntroductionModeling of three-phase systems with phasors in the stationary androtating reference frames, structural diagram in the rotating referenceframe. Complex transfer function, decoupling, poles of complex transferfunction.Vector controlVector control of a three phase current system. Simulation in thestationary and rotating reference frame (computer simulation withSIMULINK). Control of three phase current with decoupling, state-spacecontrol.Modeling and control of AC machinesModeling with space-phasors of asynchronous motor. Indirect flux controlwith voltage control. Flux control with cascade of stator current fieldoriented control. Direct torque control with sliding mode.Modeling and control of a synchronous motor. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Industrial electronics I"}
{"courseId": "CH-620", "name": "Efficient Synthetic Routes Towards Bioactive Molecules", "description": "Natural Products, Disconnection approach, Synthetic efficiency Content The following topics will be mainly targeted by this lecture:'\u00a0\u00a0 The concept of synthetic strategy optimization'\u00a0\u00a0 Diversity oriented synthetic approaches'\u00a0\u00a0 Convergent and building block based synthetic tactics'\u00a0\u00a0 Differences in planning of process and discovery routes'\u00a0\u00a0 Application of modern sustainable and efficient catalytic methods in multi-step synthesis Note Block courseNext session 9 8 10.02.2017 Keywords Natural Products, Disconnection approach, Synthetic efficiency"}
{"courseId": "MSE-468", "name": "Atomistic and quantum simulations of materials", "description": "Theory and application of quantum simulations to model, understand, and predict the properties of real materials. Content Electronic-structure and first-principles approaches (density-functional theory and the total-energy pseudopotential method). Temperature and thermodynamic averages: Monte Carlo sampling and molecular dynamics simulations. How to obtain materials' properties from simulations. Computational laboratories: Mechanical properties of materials. Band structures and electrical transport. Molecular dynamics and diffusion coefficients. Phonons and vibrational spectroscopies. Magnetic spectroscopies: EPR and NMR. \u00a0\u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Theory of materials: from structure to properties I and II, or similar Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Model materials with quantum mechanical simulations Teaching methods Ex cathedra and computational laboratories"}
{"courseId": "CH-444", "name": "Electronic spectroscopy", "description": "This course focusses on the electronic structure of atoms, diatomic and polyatomic molecules in order to understand their ultraviolet-visible and photoelectron spectra. Content Review of quantum mechanics and light-matter interaction Group theory for spectroscopy Atomic spectroscopy Vibrational spectroscopy Electronic spectroscopy of diatomic and polyatomic molecules Photoelectron spectroscopy \u00a0 Keywords Atomic and molecular spectroscopy, light matter interaction, electronic structure, photoelectron spectroscopy, UV-VIS spectra, vibrational spectra \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Spectroscopy, Physical Chemistry Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Apply quantum mechanical model systems to handle the interaction of atoms and molecules with electromagnetic radiationExplain the general features of absorption and photoelectron spectra and their dependence on the sample propertiesIdentify the point group of a moleculeConstruct representations of point groups and decompose them into irreducible representationsIdentify the symmetry of vibrational and electronic states using character tablesConstruct electronic configurations and term symbols for atoms and moleculesDerive , explain and apply spectroscopic transition rules for electronic transitions in atoms and moleculesDerive , explain and apply spectroscopic transition rules for vibrational transitions in diatomic and polyatomic moleculesExplain the Franck-Condon principle and apply to the interpret vibronic spectraExplain the process of photoionization and interpret photoelectron spectra of atoms and moleculesExplain and identify radiative and non-radiative relaxation processes of excited molecular states Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Assessment methods 70% oral exam, 30% homework assignments"}
{"courseId": "MATH-201", "name": "Analysis III", "description": "Introduction to vector calculus and Fourier series. Content line integrals surface integrals theorem of Green, Gauss and Stokes coordinate free definitions of div, grad, curl scalar & vector potentials for vector fields Fourier series Learning Prerequisites Required courses Analysis I, II Linear Algebra I, II Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Expound applications of all of the material in the courseConstruct simple proofs using the material in the course Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture and exercises in the classroom Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "BIO-630", "name": "Practical - Radtke Lab", "description": "Self renewing organs. Flow Cytometry as tools for the analysis of the hematopoietic system. Content Dissection of hematopoietic and lymphoid organs. Flow Cytometry analysis and sorting. Note Note that while the course is open to all first year EPFL doctoral students, priority will be given to EDMS students, given that they are mandated to take three EDMS practical modules. Note also that doctoral students from the Radtke laboratory cannot take this course. Access is limited to 3 students. Keywords Flow Cytometry, hematopoiesis, antibody, stem cells"}
{"courseId": "BIO-382", "name": "Neuroscience for engineers", "description": "This optional course provides students who consider a specialization in Neuroengineering during their Master with a very broad overview of the many practical applications in the field. It should ensure these students to be well informed when choosing their specialization. Content General Introduction & Visual system (Blanke)Exercises: To virtual reality (Blanke)Vision: Perception, Neurophysiology, Neuroimaging (Herzog)Exercises: Computer Vision (Herzog)Hodgkin-Huxley model: from Ion channels to Mathematics (Gerstner)Exercises: Neuron modelling (Gerstner)Large scale modelling of the brain (Markram)Exercises: Blue Brain (Sch\u00fcrmann)Systems: Audition(BMI professor)Exercises: Cochlear Implants (External)Systems: Somatosensation and Optogenetics (Petersen)Exercises: Optogenetics (Petersen)Systems: Motor (Luthi-Carter)Exercises: Parkinson's and Huntington Disease, ALS (Moore)Neuroprosthetics: Artificial Arms (Blanke)Exercises: Neuroprosthetics (Blanke)Neuroprosthetics: BCI and EEG (Blanke)Exercises: Brain-Computer Interface (Millan)Brain metabolism and Neuroimaging(Magistretti)Exercises: Physics of Brain imaging (Gruetter)MRI in humans(Hadjikhani)Exercises: Diffusion Tensor Imaging (Thiran)Memory(Sandi)Exercises: Memory (Sandi)Alzheimer Disease (Fraering)Exercises: Therapeutic interventions (Fraering)Language and Summary (Blanke)Exercises: Aphasia (Blanke)"}
{"courseId": "EE-556", "name": "Mathematics of data: from theory to computation", "description": "This course reviews recent advances in convex optimization and statistical analysis in the wake of Big Data. We provide an overview of the emerging convex formulations and their guarantees, describe scalable solution techniques, and illustrate the role of parallel and distributed computation. Content The course consists of the following topics Lecture 1:\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 'Objects in Space': Definitions of norms, inner products, and metrics for vector, matrix and tensor objects. Basics of complexity theory. Lecture 2:\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Maximum likelihood principle as a motivation for convex optimization. Fundamental structures in convex analysis, such as cones, smoothness, and conjugation. Lecture 3:\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Unconstrained, smooth minimization techniques. Gradient methods. Variable metric algorithms. Time-data tradeoffs in ML estimation. Lecture 4:\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Convex geometry of linear inverse problems. Structured data models (e.g., sparse and low-rank) and convex gauge functions and formulations that encourage these structures.\u00a0 Computational aspects of gauge functions. Lecture 5:\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Composite convex minimization. Regularized M-estimators. Time-data tradeoffs in linear inverse problems. Lecture 6:\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Convex demixing. Statistical dimension. Phase transitions in convex minimization. Smoothing approaches for non-smooth convex minimization. Lecture 7:\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Constrained convex minimization-I. Introduction to convex duality. Classical solution methods (the augmented Lagrangian method, alternating minimization algorithm, alternating direction method of multipliers, and the Frank-Wolfe method) and their deficiencies Lecture 8:\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Constrained convex minimization-II. Variational gap characterizations and dual smoothing. Scalable, black-box optimization techniques. Time data-tradeoffs for linear inverse problems. Lecture 9:\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Classical black-box convex optimization techniques. Linear programming, semidefinite programming, and the interior point method (IPM). Hierarchies of classical formulations. Time and space complexity of the IPM. Lecture 10: Time-data tradeoffs in machine learning. Lecture 11: Convex methods for Big Data I: Randomized coordinate descent methods. The Page Rank problem and Nesterov's solution. Composite formulations. Lecture 12: Convex methods for Big Data II: Stochastic gradient descent methods. Least squares: conjugate gradients vs. a simple stochastic gradient method. Dual and gradient averaging schemes. Stochastic mirror descent. Lecture 13: Randomized linear algebra routines for convex optimization. Probabilistic algorithms for constructing approximate low-rank matrix decompositions. Subset selection approaches. Theoretical approximation guarantees. Lecture 14: Role of parallel and distributed computing. How to avoid communication bottlenecks and synchronization. Consensus methods. Memory lock-free, decentralized, and asynchronous algorithms. \u00a0\u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Previous coursework in calculus, linear algebra, and probability is required. Familiarity with optimization is useful.\u00a0 \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose an appropriate convex formulation for a data analytics problem at handEstimate the underlying data size requirements for the correctness of its solutionImplement an appropriate convex optimization algorithm based on the available computational platformDecide on a meaningful level of optimization accuracy for stopping the algorithmCharacterize the time required for their algorithm to obtain a numerical solution with the chosen accuracy"}
{"courseId": "CH-611", "name": "Inorganic chemistry \"Techniques and methods\"", "description": "To present and discuss important recent contributions in the field of inorganic chemistry incorporating techniques and methods. Student literature seminars based on selected publications,emanating from the last 12 months. Seminar preceded by introduction to the topic followed by group discussion. Content The topics covered in this course will include recent advances in the field of: 1. bioinorganic chemistry (e.g. EPR of metalloenzyme model compounds, X-ray diffraction techniques). 2. Metallo-pharmaceuticals (cell culture assays, determining mode of activity). 3. Organometallic compounds (e.g. new concepts in combinatorial catalysis, elucidation of reaction mechanisms using in situ high pressure spectroscopic methods). 4. Supramolecular coordination chemistry (combinatorial methodologies). 5. Computer modelling of inorganic and organometallic systems. Techniques from other fields which could find uses in inorganic chemistry (e.g. atomic force microscopy). \u00a0The specific content will be chosen by the instructors and will be renewed every year. Note Spring semester 2019 Keywords Inorganic, Organometallic, Materials, Catalysis, Spectroscopy, Theory."}
{"courseId": "ENG-272", "name": "Fluid mechanics (for SIE)", "description": "This course helps students acquire basic knowledge of the main concepts and equations of fluid mechanics and develop the skills necessary to work effectively in professional engineering practice. Content \u00a0 Introduction: Continuum assumption, basic fluid properties Fluid statics: pressure, forces on immersed body Flowing fluids and pressure variation: continuity, momentum, energy equations, applications in engineering Dimensional analysis and similitude Surface resistance Flow in conduits Flow in open channels Flow measurement \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Physics, Mathematics, Mechanics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe basic fluid and flow characteristics such as density, viscosity, surface tension, shear stress, pressure and velocity.Apply the hydrostatic equation and the buoyancy equation to predict forces and moments.Apply the Bernouilli equation to calculate pressure and velocity variations in a fluid flow.Apply the contintuity equation to draining tanks and reservoirs.Apply the momentum equation to stationary and moving control volumes.Apply the energy equation to predict variables such as pressure drop and head loss.Apply the Buckingham-Pi theorem to determine dimensionless variables.Design pipes and pumps based on pressure drop and head loss calculations.Apply Manning's equation to uniform open channel flow and find the best hydraulic section. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, exercises, practical work Expected student activities Attending lectures and exercises and participation in laboratories (practical work). Assessment methods Exercises (10%) Laboratories and practical work (5%) Two written midterm tests (50%) Written final exam (120 min) during exam session (35%) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "CH-321", "name": "Bioinorganic chemistry", "description": "Introduction to the coordination chemistry and function of metal complexes in biological systems. Content 1. A comparison of the most relevant metal ions in biological systems.2. The function and mechanism of enzymes that contain transition metal complexes in their active center.3. Transition metal complexes for the transport and storage of oxygen and electrons.4. The role of alkali- and earth alkaline metal ions in biological systems.5. Inorganic materials in biological systems (Biomineralization).6. Metal complexes in medicine.7. Toxicology of transition metals. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Recall the most important metal ions for biological systems and their function.Recall the most important ligands for the complexation of metal ions in biological systems.Differentiate essential metals with dose-dependent toxicity and generally toxic metals and recall diseases which are related to iron or copper overload in humans and the corresponding treatment.Recall important inorganic compounds with applications in medicinal inorganic chemistry.Recall the role of organometallic compounds in biological systems.Differentiate the most important biominerals and recall the role of sodium, potassium, magnesium, and calcium ions in biological systems.Recall major metalloproteins and their active sites.Construct a mechanism for the reactions catalyzed by metalloproteins.Differentiate the metalloproteins involved in oxygen binding and transport.Differentiate the metalloproteins involved in electron transport. Teaching methods Lectures Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "CH-402", "name": "Bioanalytics and analytical sensors", "description": "Introduction to instrumental and bioinformatics analytical methods used in proteomics and genomics. Content ' Electrochemical and optical detection methods used in biosensorsdesign for microchips.Case study: Glucose sensor and immunosensor.\u00a0' Hyphenated analytical techniques for proteomics (fractionation,digestion/separation, mass spectrometry analysis, genomic data-basesearch)Case study: allergy Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate the adequation of novel technology with specific medical diagnostic issuesDesign medical devices based on microfluidics elementsTake into consideration the advantage and drawback in selecting microfluidic technicsSelect appropriately among microfluidic technologies which one will solve a specific medical diagostics issue"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-434", "name": "Physics of photonic semiconductor devices", "description": "Series of lectures covering the optical properties of direct bandgap semiconductors including processes such as absorption, spontaneous and stimulated emission; the physics of heterostructures and the properties of the main light emitting devices that are light-emitting diodes and laser diodes. Content 1. Semiconductor materials for optoelectronics 2. Light-matter interaction in semiconductors Fermi's golden rule, absorption, optical susceptibility, Bernard-Duraffourg condition, spontaneous and stimulated emission of radiation, dielectric function, optical constants, radiative lifetime, photoluminescence spectra 3. Nanostructures and microcavities Growth techniques, quantum wells, superlattices, quantum dots, microcavities, Purcell effect 4. Electroluminescence Light-emitting diodes, quasi-Fermi levels, emission spectra, efficiency, radiative and nonradiative lifetimes Applications for displays and solid-state lighting 5. Laser diodes Stimulated emission, optical gain, transparency and threshold currents, spectral characteristics, far-field and near-field emission patterns, efficiency, waveguides Fabry-Perot laser diodes, distributed feedback and vertical cavity laser structures Bandgap engineering, quantum well laser diodes, separate confinement heterostructures Quantum cascade lasers Relaxation oscillation frequency Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Semiconductor electronic devices Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: ArgueContextualiseSketchSynthesizeGeneralizeStructureProposeAssess / Evaluate Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner. Teaching methods Ex cathedra with exercises Expected student activities Read the bibliographical ressources in order to fully integrate and properly use the physical concepts seen in the lectures and the exercices Be able to generalize the above-mentioned concepts to a wide variety of systems/devices Assessment methods oral exam (100%)"}
{"courseId": "ChE-460", "name": "Project in Biotechnology", "description": "To complete a project in bioprocess field in a research lab. Content Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manage an individual research projectApply the competences to a specific subjectDesign researchAssess / Evaluate the results criticallyCompose the project in written form in a scientific reportExpound the project in oral form for a scientific audienceDevelop expertise in a specific area of researchPresent data cohenrently and effectively"}
{"courseId": "EE-719", "name": "Digital Speech and Audio Coding", "description": "The goal of this course is to introduce the engineering students state-of-the-art speech and audio coding techniques with an emphasis on the integration of knowledge about sound production and auditory perception through signal processing techniques. Content 1. IntroductionHuman speech production, Music production, Auditory perception, Brief overview on information theory and coding theory.2. Applied Signal ProcessingBrief overview on sampling and quantization, Discrete Fourier transform, Perfect reconstruction, Quadrature mirror filter, Modified discrete cosine transform, Stereo processing, Linear prediction (LP), Auditory filters, Auditory masking, Perceptual auditory models (Johnston's model, MPEG models), Spectral band replication, Temporal noise shaping.3. Speech CodingScalar and Vector quantization, Lossless coding, Waveform and parametric coding, Vocoders, LP coders, Analysis by Synthesis and Code excited LP codec, Adaptive multi-rate (AMR).4. Audio Coding and Emerging TrendsPerceptual audio coders, MPEG-1, MPEG-2, MPEG-4, Dolby AC, Sony, AMR-WB, Generic coding.5. Evaluation and Standardization of Audio and Speech codersObjective evaluation techniques (PESQ, PEAQ), Subjective evaluation techniques (MOS, MUSHRA, BS.1116), Standardization (ITU).6. Laboratory ExercisesAuditory perception models, Auditory filters, Estimation of masking threshold, Simple perceptual waveform coder, Objective quality evaluation techniques. Note Course notes (and relevant book chapters) available. Keywords Speech coding, Audio coding, Speech and music production, Auditory perception. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses - Undergraduate level signal processing - Programming in Matlab or similar"}
{"courseId": "CS-452", "name": "Foundations of software", "description": "The course introduces the foundations on which programs and programming languages are built. It introduces syntax, types and semantics as building blocks that together define the properties of a program part or a language. Students will learn how to apply these concepts in their reasoning. Content - simple types, lambda-calculus- normalization, references, exceptions- subtyping- recursive types- polymorphism- advances features of the Scala type system Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Advanced topics in programming, Compiler construction Important concepts to start the course Functional programming Basic knowledge of formal languages Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Argue design decisions of programming languagesAssess / Evaluate soundness of type systemsCompose higher-order functionsVerify progress and preservation in type systemsWork out / Determine operational equivalencesCarry out projects of 2-3 weeks durationDistinguish valid from invalid proofsImplement type systems and operational semantics Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles.Manage priorities. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, practical exercises Assessment methods With continuous control"}
{"courseId": "CS-717", "name": "Current Topics in Distributed Systems", "description": "Study and presentation of key recent papers in distributed systems, organized around specific topics of current interest. Content In this course, students will read, present and discuss recent papers in distributed systems, organized around a few topics of current interest to the distributed systems community. \u00a0The topics will change from semester to semester, as the focus of the research community shifts. However, we can already identify \u00a0(1) Datacenter scheduling\u00a0 (2) Graph streaming systems (3)\u00a0 Resilience and efficiency in large-scale storage systems\u00a0 \u00a0(4) Security and Privacy in distributed systems. \u00a0 The number of studied topics \u00a0may vary depending on the number of students in the course. The studied papers will be chosen from recent\u00a0 major\u00a0 conferences in the area\u00a0 such as SOSP, OSDI, NSDI, Eurosys. The expected output for the students will be - learn how to analyze and\u00a0 present recent work in distributed systems. Students\u00a0 will receive feedback from the instructors and other students\u00a0 upon their presentation. - learn the important ingredients and metrics of a good distributed system paper. - learn the main advances in topic of interest in the community. - learn how to extract interesting problems and possible extension of current works. While this course should be accessible to advanced MS students with the instructor's permission, the course mostly target PhD students with interest in distributed systems.\u00a0 It is hoped that faculty members with interests in distributed systems will participate in the course. Keywords distributed systems, computer systems Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Operating systems, distributed algorithms, principles of cumputer systems, networking"}
{"courseId": "CS-487", "name": "Industrial automation", "description": "This course consists of two parts: 1) architecture of control systems, hands-on lab 2) handling of faults and failures in real-time systems, including fault-tolerant computing Content 1. Processes and plants, control system architecture2. Instrumentation, Programmable Logic Controllers and embedded computers3. Industrial communication networks, field busses4. Field device access protocols and application program interfaces5. Human interface and supervision6. Manufacturing Execution Systems (optional*)7. Plant configuration and commissioning (optional*)8. Real-time response and performance analysis9. Dependability9.1 Reliability, Availability, Safety9.2 Evaluation of dependability9.3 Safe and Reliable communication9.4 Fault-tolerant computers9.5 Software reliability9.6 Safety evaluation Keywords Industrial Automation considers the control, command and communication in real-time systems: factories, energy production and distribution, vehicles and other embedded systems. Industrial Automation encompasses the whole chain from sensors, motors, controllers, communication networks, operator visualization, archiving and up to manufacturing execution systems and enterprise resource management. It includes fault-tolerance against hardware and software faults and the evaluation methods. This application-oriented course does not require previous knowledge in control theory. It complements communication systems courses with a focus on industrial application. \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Communication networks Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Characterize the architecture of a control systemApply methods and trade-offs in real-time systemsAnalyze a plantPropose suitable automation solutions meeting the requirementsAnalyze the reliability, availability, safety of a system Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsAccess and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Oral presentation aided by slides, exercises as part of the lecture, practical work (workshop at Siemens and independent homework). Expected student activities Understand material presented during lectures by asking questions and/or independent (online) searches Attend Siemens workshop (one full day on Siemens premises in Renens) Work on one of three possible homework projects independently Hand-in report and slides for homework on time Assessment methods Assignment 25% and final oral exam 75%"}
{"courseId": "BIO-502", "name": "Lab immersion II", "description": "The student will engage in a laboratory-based project in the field of molecular medicine, neuroscience or bioengineering. Student projects will emphasize acquisition of practical skills in experimentation and data analysis. Content A typical project will involve \"hands-on\" wetlab experimentation and data analysis, althoughtheoretical and computationally-oriented projects are also possible. The projects are available on the web sites of SV laboratories or discussed directly with a potential head of lab. The students are confronted with the realization of a laboratory-based project integratingspecific aspects of molecular medicine or neuroscience.This project will allow them to apply, to concrete problems, skills of domain and transversal skills acquired during their studies Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bachelor in Life Sciences and Technology Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manage an individual research projectDevelop expertise in a specific area of researchImplement appropriate technologies to address the scientific or engineering problem being studiedConduct experiments appropriate the specific problem being studiedAssess / Evaluate data obtained in wetlab and computational experimentsInterpret data obtained in wetlab and computational experimentsOptimize experimental protocols and data presentationPlan experiments to test hypotheses based on obtained results Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingWrite a scientific or technical report.Collect data. Expected student activities Students will focus on hands-on experimentation, which may be wetlab-based or computer-based, depending on the project. Students will read and discuss assigned papers from the originalscientific literature. As part of the evaluation process, students may be required to submit a written report or to give an oral presentation that summarizes and interprets their results. 16h/semaine de pr\u00e9sence en laboratoire pendant 14 semaines ou 5 semaines \u00e0 100% (42h/semaine). Peut \u00eatre pris durant les vacances d'\u00e9t\u00e9 ou au semestre d'automne"}
{"courseId": "CH-491", "name": "Project in molecular sciences", "description": "The student applies the acquired skills to an academic project. Content The students are confronted with the realization of a project in one of the fields of Chemistry available at the ISIC letting them know how to work in a research environment.science. This project will allow them to apply, to concrete problems, skills of domain and transversal skills acquired during their studies. The subject is carried out under the supervision of a Professor, MER or teacher from the ISIC which research's domains are descibed in the link at the bottom of this page. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manage an individual research projectApply the competences to a specific subjectDesign researchAssess / Evaluate the results criticallyCompose the project in written form in a scientific reportExpound the project in oral form for a scientific audienceDevelop expertise in a specific area of researchPresent data coherently and effectively Transversal skills Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art.Summarize an article or a technical report.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Collect data.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information."}
{"courseId": "PHYS-709", "name": "Stellar evolution and nucleosynthesis (UNIGe)", "description": "Introduction to the physical mechanisms governing stellar equilibrium, stellar evolution and nucleosynthesis.Study of evolution from star formation to supernovae and condensed remnants. Content Mechanical equilibriumThermal equilibrium and radiative transferNuclear reactionsNumerical simulationsStar formation and observationsHydrogen burning phaseHelium burning and advanced nuclear phasesSupernovae and nucleosynthesisWhite dwarfs, neutron stars and black holesStellar pulsationsHelioseismology and asteroseismology\u00a0Lecturer : Prof. Georges Meynet, Observatoire de Gen\u00e8ve"}
{"courseId": "MGT-432", "name": "Data science for business", "description": "Students will learn core concepts from the field of Data Science that managers can use to make better business decisions. Students will also learn how to apply those concepts to real programming problems. Content This course introduces students to some of the programming tools used by data scientists to address real world business analytics problems. Accordingly, the course objectives are three fold: (1) to develop an understanding of how Data Science methods can support decision making in business environments; (2) to gain familiarity with how Data Science tools function through experience in addressing real-word problems and programming real-world solutions; (3) to evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of alternative approaches. The course is particularly applicable for students interested in working for, or learning about, data-driven companies. Keywords Data science; data analysis; business analytics; python; data-driven management Learning Prerequisites Required courses Prior to the start of class, all students must complete a comprehensive course in statistics covering descriptive statistics, analysis of variance, and the OLS linear regression model. Additionally, students must have prior experience with at least one programming language. \u00a0 Recommended courses It is strongly recommended that students take an introductory course in computer programming prior to taking this course, and that students familiarize themselves with the syntax and data structures of the Python programming language. There are numerous online MOOCs and/or tutorials that can serve this need. A masters-level statistics course, over-and-above the required foundational course in statistics, is also strongly recommended. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate methods for investigating large datasets.Identify some of the public sources of data that are useful for management decisions in firms.Manage import and manage public sources of data to answer real-world management problems.Compare many of the best practices associated with collecting and analyzing non-traditional sources of data.Analyze how firms can transform themselves into effective data-driven organizations.Critique the advantages and disadvantages of different data science methods. Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Collect data. Teaching methods Weekly lectures, problem sets, and exercises. Expected student activities Attending class regularly to both acquire content and to review problem sets and exercises. Quizzes will be given during regularly scheduled class hours.\u00a0 Assessment methods 12%\u00a0 Assignments 20%\u00a0 Written midterm exam 25%\u00a0 Semester project 8%\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Final presentation 35%\u00a0 Written final exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "FIN-609", "name": "Asset Pricing", "description": "This course provides an overview of the theory of asset pricing and portfolio choice theory following historical developments in the field and putting emphasis on theoretical models that help our understanding of financial decision making and financial markets. Content We start with the standard stochastic discount factor framework of Breeden-Lucas-Rubinstein. We then review the main stylized facts that have challenged the classic model in the last thirty years: equity premium puzzle, excess volatility puzzle, cross-sectional (value, growth, momentum) puzzles. We investigate several extensions of the classic framework that financial economists have proposed to explain these facts. First, we cover new preferences: recursive utility, habit formation, uncertainty aversion. Then, we investigate incomplete markets, trading frictions, and heterogeneous agent models. Finally, we investigate limits to arbitrage theories combined with behavioral explanations such as heterogeneous beliefs, bounded rationality, and other deviations from rationality proposed in the recent literature. A last section covers recent attempts to model liquidity risk. Assessment methods Written exam."}
{"courseId": "PHYS-454", "name": "Quantum optics and quantum information", "description": "Fully quantum theory of the light-matter interaction. Study of interacting quantum systems. Introduction to a few modern problems in quantum optics. Introduction to quantum information. Quantum cryptography and quantum computing. Content 5. Fully quantum theory of the light-matter interaction, and of the laser.Jaynes-Cummings model and spontaneous emission. Master equation for system-reservoir interaction within the Born-Markov approximation. Fully quantum theory of the laser: photon statistics and laser linewidth.6. Introduction to many-body effects in semiconductors. Microcavities.Semiconductor Bloch equations. Excitons. \u00ab Incoherent \u00bb relaxation terms. Correlation phenomena in atoms and quantum boxes. Microcavities, strong coupling and polaritons.7. Mechanical effects in the light-matter interaction.Radiation pressure. Atom laser cooling. Bose condensation in cold gases.8. Introduction to quantum theory of information.The quantum bit. Entangled states and Bell inequalities. Quantum cryptography, Quantum teleportation, Quantum simulation and quantum computers. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Master the calculational techniques"}
{"courseId": "CH-406", "name": "Analysis of ancient materials and their degradation", "description": "This course aims at introducing ancient materials and their investigation by non-destructive synchrotron and imaging techniques. Case-studies on paintings, ceramics, stained glass, fossils will be presented and important concepts introduced and discussed (multiscale, heterogeneity, representativity) Content What are ancient materials? Challenges in analyzing heterogeneous and sensitive materials Synchrotron techniques for ancient materials (X-ray absorption spectroscopy, X-ray fluorescence, photoluminescence) X-ray tomography techniques: Going to 3D and 4D imaging Physico-chemistry of materials degradation Case-studies of ancient materials and their degradation Examples of case-studies: ' Cobalt blue degradation in oil paintings.' Identification of archaeological ivory and its degradation.' Nanoinvestigation of 19th century daguerreotype photographs.' Initial corrosion processes in reinforced concrete monuments.' Fossilization and diagenesis processes. Keywords Cultural heritage; synchrotron techniques, degradation processes, X-ray absorption spectroscopy, tomography, 2D imaging Learning Prerequisites Required courses Basics in solid-state, inorganic and organic chemistry, notions in spectroscopy and materials sciences. An introductory lecture will be given if necessary. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate the danger of beam damage for a given objectDescribe the main constituents of a variety of ancient materials (paintings, ceramics, photographs, wall painting, etc)Choose appropriate technique(s) and measurement scalePropose an analytical framework to optimize information obtained from a micro-sampleDescribe X-ray absorption spectroscopyInterpret XANES and XAFS spectraDescribe the principles of absorption tomographyConstruct chemical imaging data Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingPlan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, presentations by students and paper discussions Expected student activities The students are expected to read chosen literature beforehand and to prepare a short summary that will serve as a basis for the lecture and discussion. Assessment methods Oral exam, with formal short presentation questions."}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-435", "name": "Advanced steel design", "description": "Advanced topics in structural steel seismic design. Topics include: bolted and welded beam-to-column connections; beam-columns, steel braces, eccentrically braced frame links, capacity design of conventional steel frame buildings; innovative steel lateral load resisting systems for seismic loading. Content Week 1: Introduction and background Week 2: Seismic loads, structural analysis for lateral loading Week 3: Steel frame ductility and stability under lateral loading Week 4: Seismic design of steel moment-resisting frames (MRFs) - General concepts Week 5: Seismic design of steel MRFs - Design of beam-to-column cconnections Week 6: Seismic design of steel MRFs - Design of beam-to-column web panel zone Week 7: Seismic design of steel MRFs - Design of steel columns - Part I Week 8: Seismic design of steel MRFs - Design of steel columns - Part II Week 9: Seismic design of steel Concentrically Braced Frames (CBFs) - General concepts Week 10: Seismic design of steel CBFs - Design of braces and other members Week 11: Seismic design of steel Eccentrically Braced Frames (EBFs) - General concepts Week 12: Seismic design of steel EBFs - Design of EBF link and other members Week 13: Seismic design of innovative lateral load-resisting systems Week 14: Special topics related to the seismic behaviour of steel structures Keywords steel structural systems, steel design and behaviour, moment frames, braced frames, eccentrically braced frames; capacity design; stability; P-Delta effects; ductility Learning Prerequisites Required courses Structural Analysis, Structural Dynamics, Basic Course(s) in Structural Steel Design Recommended courses Nonlinear Analysis, Seismic Engineering Important concepts to start the course Basic knowledge in structural steel behaviour and design Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the behaviour of various steel lateral load resisting systems and their structural componentsDesign steel structures for seismic and wind loadingAssess / Evaluate the basic behaviour of steel components under cyclic loading Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Respect relevant legal guidelines and ethical codes for the profession. Teaching methods 2-hour lecture, 1-hour exercices Use of: Powerpoint Online lecture recording system to facilitate learning Tools to facilitate learning of stability theory in-class exercises Expected student activities Class participation, in-class exercise solutions Assessment methods 1. Midterm written exam (25%), 2. Final written exam (75%). Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Others The course lectures will be provided online 3-hours after the end of each class. Resources Bibliography Eurocode 8, AISC-341-10, AISC-358-10, AISC-360-10, Reading material provided through Moodle Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que AISC 358-10EurocodesAISC 360-10AISC 341-10 Notes/Handbook -The course lectures, list of in-class exercise problems and midterm/final exams are based on lecture notes that are provided weekly through Moodle. -The course does not follow a specific Handbook."}
{"courseId": "ChE-602(2)", "name": "Recent Events in Energy-2", "description": "World leading Scientists from different instritutions and Professors or Senior Scientists from EPFL with expertise in the field of energy will be invited at EPFL Valais Wallis in Sion to present their research in lectures of 1 hour (14 invited scientists per semester). Content Recent Events in Energy is a new series of seminars that will take place at EPFL Valais Wallis in Sion. The aim of these events is to have a better grasp of the leading research in energy by inviting World Leading Scientists from different institutions (9-10 per semester) and Professors or Senior Scientists from EPFL (4-5 per semester). This will be highly beneficial for our PhD students in Sion (who must attend these seminars) as they will broaden their horizons in several research areas. They will also have the opportunity to meet the invited speakers, have lunch together with the aim to promote and encourage discussions between them. The invited scientists, experts in the fields of: - Hydrogen storage, - Metal organic frameworks, - Membranes, - Gas separations, - Hybrid materials, - Catalysis, - Engineering of energy systems, - Process systems engineering, - Photovoltaics, - Physical and Analytical Electrochemistry and - Molecular simulations will give a 45 mins presentation, followed by 15 mins of questions. The speakers will be invited to come at EPFL Valais Wallis in Sion each semester and give their talks on Thursdays from 4-5 pm.\u00a0 The invited speakers and talk titles will be announced at the beginning of each semester on a website. Each student has to attend the seminar series for two academic semesters in order to collect 28 hours of attendance and thus gain 2 ECTS credits. During the meetings between the PhD students and speaker and/or over lunch, the student has to present and discuss his/her research activity with the invited speaker; this can be very beneficial for their personal development academically. Finally, at the end of each semester and as a further assessement (exam), each student has to choose one of the seminars presented and write a report - what did they like or dislike for example, which has to be submitted to and approved by the seminar series organizers. Note Next session: Fall semester 2017 Enrolment: edch@epfl.ch Keywords Energy, Research Talks Learning Prerequisites Required courses MA2"}
{"courseId": "ENG-440", "name": "Spatial statistics and analysis", "description": "The main objective is to make the students understand the importance of the spatial issues in environmental sciences and engineering, for example for mapping and interpolation. Presentation of different concepts and techniques devoted to spatial data. Content Modeling, analysis and statistics of continuous phenomena (mainly Geostatistics) Modeling, analysis and statistics of discrete phenomena Classification / regionalization Analysis of topographical data Exercises and application projects (combining the different components of the course) \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basics of StatisticsBasics of GIS Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Expound importance of spatial dimension in the analysis of environmental dataApply basic geostatistical tools for structural inference (variogram) and interpolation (kriging)Assess / Evaluate the global and local spatial dependence within a spatial dataset (autocorrelation)Compute most important landscape and spatial metricsDesign complex spatial analysis processes Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Ex-cathedra exercises project"}
{"courseId": "ChE-459", "name": "Process development project", "description": "Development project of a real lab process to industrial scale. Content Integrated process development of a simple process from lab to industrial scale.\u00a0 Production costs estimation.\u00a0 Feasibility study with respect to economic and EHS compliance.\u00a0 Safety concepts application. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives."}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-489", "name": "Semester project in Bioengineering", "description": "The student will engage in a laboratory-based project in the field of bioengineering. Student projects will emphasize acquisition of practical skills in experimentation and data analysis. Content A typical project will involve \"hands-on\" wetlab experimentation and data analysis, although theoretical and computationally-oriented projects are also possible. The projects are available on the web sites of SV laboratories or discussed directly with a potential head of lab. The students are confronted with the realization of a laboratory-based project integrating specific aspects of molecular medicine or neuroscience. This project will allow them to apply, to concrete problems, skills of domain and transversal skills acquired during their studies. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manage an individual research projectDevelop expertise in a specific area of researchImplement appropriate technologies to address the scientific or engineering problem being studiedConduct experiments appropriate the specific problem being studiedAssess / Evaluate data obtained in wetlab and computational experimentsInterpret data obtained in wetlab and computational experimentsOptimize experimental protocols and data presentationPlan experiments to test hypotheses based on obtained results Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingDemonstrate a capacity for creativity.Collect data. Expected student activities Students will focus on hands-on experimentation, which may be wetlab-based or computer-based, depending on the project. Students will read and discuss assigned papers from the original scientific literature. As part of the evaluation process, students are required to submit a written report and give an oral presentation that summarizes and interprets their results. Assessment methods Continuous controlWritten reportOral presentation Supervision Others Typically, the student will be matched with a secondary mentor (this will usually be a senior PhD student or a Postdoctoral Fellow) who will take responsibility for the day-to-day supervision and training of the student."}
{"courseId": "ENV-509", "name": "Applied wastewater engineering", "description": "This course on applied wastewater treatment focuses on engineering and scientific aspects to achieve high effluent water quality and to handle wastes and air emissions generated in wastewater treatment plants. Furthermore, it provides students with aspects to control such complex installations. Content Organic micropollutant removal Biological treatment, ozonation, activated carbon, combined and other processes, sand\u00a0filtration,\u00a0existing and planned installations in Switzerland Treatment of wastewater solids Sludge characterisation, thickening/stabilisation/dewatering and drying\u00a0of sludge, energy and nutrient recovery,\u00a0incineration and land application Disinfection of wastewater Biological treatment, sedimentation,\u00a0UV-disinfection, disinfection using oxidants, filtration techniques Air emission control Types of emissions, chemical and biological treatment methods, reduction of greenhouse gases Control of wastewater treatment plants Concepts of regulation, PID; off-line measures, online sensors Reuse of wastewater Effluent requirements (agriculture, groundwater recharge,\u00a0potable reuse), sociological aspects Keywords organic micropollutants removal, sludge treatment,\u00a0air emission control, nutrient and energy recovery, process control, disinfection of wastewater, reuse of wastewater, engineering Learning Prerequisites Required courses Water and wastewater treatment \u00a0 Recommended courses Microbiologie pour l'ing\u00e9nieur G\u00e9nie des proc\u00e9d\u00e9s G\u00e9nie sanitaire, gestion des eaux et des d\u00e9chets Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design an organic micropollutant removal processPropose an adequate sludge treatmentDevelop a control system for a wastewater treatment plantPlan an exhaust air treatment sub-unitAssess / Evaluate the water quality needs for a water reuse project Teaching methods Lectures ex cathedra, exercises and one or two visits to a wastewater treatment plant Expected student activities Participation in homework sessions and in wastewater treatment plant visits Assessment methods One written mid-term exam during the semester and one final exam"}
{"courseId": "MSE-430", "name": "Life cycle engineering of polymers", "description": "Students understand what life cycle engineering is and apply this methodology to adapt and improve the durability of polymer-based products. They understand how to recycle these materials and are able to perform an environmental assessment, based on several practical case studies. Content Introduction to life cycle engineering and sustainable development- Resources, material intensity and durability\u00a0 \u00a0 Durability of polymers- Phenomenology of time-dependent polymer properties- Aging and degradation of polymers- Stabilization and protection of polymers- Accelerated aging methods and long term property prediction- Case study of an automotive component- Non-destructive testing and health monitoring- Self-repair polymers\u00a0 \u00a0 Recycling of polymers- Collection, identification and recycling methods- Case study: closed-loop recycling of composites- Group work: recycling of pharmaceutical packaging\u00a0 \u00a0 Life cycle assessment and design- Methods and examples- Case study: natural fibers vs glass fibers reinforced composites- Group work: life cycle engineering of an industrial component Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Polymers, structure and propertiesPolymer processing Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Model Define and calculate the material intensityFormulate Define and explain the time-temperature equivalences for polymersDescribe Explain the principles of health monitoring and self-repair materialsModel Predict the lifetime of a polymer partDevelop Design a recycling process for polymers and compositesDesign Design a polymer-based part to reduce its environmental impact Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Write a scientific or technical report.Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods Ex-cathedra with group work Expected student activities - Participate to the course and to the case studies - Realize a group project on a selected topic (for example, accelerated aging, material intensity of an automotive component, etc.) Assessment methods The examination is in the form of a group project, which is evaluated with a \"1 slide\" oral presentation in english in the class and a written report in english. The final grade is the average of the following 5 grades : 1. Quality of the report (spelling, quality of the figures) 2. Bibliography (relevance of the information; all sources MUST be cited!) 3. Case study (data quality and novelty) 4. Synthesis and conclusions of the project 5. Quality of the 1-slide presentation (clarity, content and timing)"}
{"courseId": "CH-353", "name": "Introduction to electronic structure methods", "description": "Repetition of the basic concepts of quantum mechanics and main numerical algorithms used for practical implementions. Basic principles of electronic structure methods:Hartree-Fock, many body perturbation theory, configuration interaction, coupled-cluster theory, density functional theory. Content Short repetition of the basic concepts of quantum mechanics and the main numerical algorithms used for practical implementions. Basic principles of electronic structure methods: Hartree-Fock, many body perturbation theory, configuration interaction, coupled-cluster theory, density functional theory. Overview of computational molecular modelling techniques. Application of these techniques in a practical research project. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manage basic theoretical concepts of electronic structure methods-Carry out simple electronic structure calculations. Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Evaluate one's own performance in the team, receive and respond appropriately to feedback.Make an oral presentation.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Ex cathedra and exercices on computers \u00a0 Assessment methods Ongoing controls as follow: 1/3 of final grade = 1 written exam in the middle of the semester 1/3 of final grade = 1 oral exam at the end of the semester 1/3 of final grade = average of the grades obtained on the weekly reports and questions asked on these reports."}
{"courseId": "MSE-802", "name": "CCMX Summer School - Multiscale Modelling of Materials (2016)", "description": "This course will present an overview of the different modelling techniques available to materials scientists, engineers in mechanical engineering, chemical engineering, microtechnology or physics, along with the basics to create such models. Content The purpose of this course is to provide an overview of the different techniques currently available for modelling materials, along with the basics to create such models. These will be taught during the keynote lectures. Participants will also find out what the experts currently consider as the biggest challenges for modelling materials in an industrial context, and for dealing with big data sets. The round table discussion will be an ideal opportunity for instructors and participants to address questions after the keynote lectures, including covering a variety of interdisciplanary topics. Poster sessions will enable discussions covering interdisciplinary topics as participants from various backgrounds --- materials science and engineering, mechanical engineering, chemical engineering, microtechnology and physics --- are expected to attend. \u00a0 Topics that will be covered are: - Introduction to multiscale modelling - Ab initio modelling - Applications of first principles calculations - Molecular dynamics, including applications in metallurgy - Model multiplicity and data validity for materials modelling in an industrial context - Phase field theory - Modelling of polymer blend - Kinetic Monte Carlo techniques and applications - Multiscale solidification methods - Finite elements, including applications in concrete/building materials - Level set methods, including applications in recrystallization of alloys / grain growth - Multi-scale modelling: higher hierarchies; concurrent \u00a0 \u00a0 Please also register with CCMX using the online registration form on their website. Note Course taking place at EPFL Keywords Multiscale modelling, materials Learning Prerequisites Required courses Basic physics and chemistry"}
{"courseId": "MSE-479", "name": "Introduction to nanomaterials", "description": "The course gives an introdution to nanostructured materials and their applications. This course is adressed to students with limited knowledge in materials science, therefore the properties of bulk material will be shortly explained and for important properties the \"nanoeffect\" will be disscued. Content 1. Introduction into nanomaterials 2. Properties of nanomaterials : - Electric, optic - Magnetic - Thermodynamic - Mechanic 3. Preparation and synthesis of nanomaterials : - Chemical and physical methods - Self assembly 4. Applications \u00a0 Keywords nanotechnology, nanomaterials, nano Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basic knowledge in chemistry, physics, thermodynamics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate the difference between bulk and nanosiced materialsExplain typical synthesis method fro nanomaterialsAssess / Evaluate existing potential application of nanomaterialExplain the physical, chemical and thermodynamic behaviour of nanoparticles Transversal skills Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods Lectures and presentations from students Expected student activities An oral presentation regarding a subject given at the beginnin of the semester Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MSE-634", "name": "CCMX Winter School Surface Science and Coatings", "description": "This course is designed to provide an in-depth review of surface science fundamentals and to cover important scientific aspects relating to coatings. It aims to offer a skill set relevant to the participants research projects and future careers. Content Lectures from featured speakers will take place in the morning sessions. Afternoon is free for networking and sports. The evenings are planned for the small groups of participants to present their assigned case studies.\u00a0 Note Please register with CCMX Keywords surface thermodynamics and kinetics, geometric and electronic structure determination, adsorbate-covered metal and oxide surfaces.morphology, grain growth, texture, constrained film structures, amorphous films, simulationPlasma, thin films, coatings, nanostructured films ,CVD, PACVD, PVD, sputtering.scanning probe microscopy, STM, SFM (AFM), MFM, nc-AFM, modes of operation, MRFM, cantilever, sensors, TOF-SIMS.Pulsed laser deposition, thin films for energy applications, laser-induced forward transfer (LIFT) and related laser direct-write methods, writing of sensorscell-material interactions, biomimetic matrices and scaffolds, tissue engineering, functional implants. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Participants should be educated in materials science, physics, chemistry or microtechnology to benefit the most from this course. Assessment methods Oral examination"}
{"courseId": "CH-700(1)", "name": "Advanced electroanalytical chemistry I", "description": "Voltammetry, Impedance, Electrochemical imaging by scanning electrochemical microscopy, Inkjet printing of electrocatalysts and catalyst layers, Combinatorial electrochemical catalyst screening Content 1. Electrochemistry and redox electrocatalysis 2. Redox flow batteries 3. Impedance 4. Instrumentation 5. Scanning electrochemical microscopy and related techniques 6. Scanning electrochemical microscopy with soft probes 7. Inkjet printing of electrodes for electroanalysis 8. Printing and screening of electrocatalysts Note Next session November 2017 (block) Textbook recommended: \"Analytical and Physical Electrochemistry\" by H.H. Girault, EPFL Press, 2004. Keywords Voltammetry, Electrochemical Sensors, Inkjet Printing, Electrodes, Electrocatalysts Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Fundamental electrochemistry"}
{"courseId": "CH-603", "name": "Basic principles of drug action at the nervous system", "description": "The aim of this course is two-fold: i) to describe the molecular properties of some important drug targets ii) to illustrate some applications of drugs active at the nervous system Content Basic Principles of drug action at the nervous system1) Molecular pharmacology of ion channels 2) Pharmacology of pain 3) Pharmacology of GABA receptors 4) Pharmacology of the autonomous nervous system 5) Pharmacology of the central nervous system Note Spring every year (spread dates in March-April) The students need to be present at least during 6 of the 7 two-hour of the class. Keywords drug action Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Basic knowledge of biochemistry, physiology and neurobiology"}
{"courseId": "MATH-471", "name": "Quantitative risk management", "description": "Students understand and apply the main statistical tools used to model financial risk. They study important volatility and credit risk models, elements of extreme-value theory, copula and aggregate risk measures. They solve problems using Matlab. Content Basics of risk management (the Basel Accords) Standard statistical methods Multivariate risk factor models Modelling of dependence ((rank) correlation, copulas) Modelling of extreme events: basic EVT Dynamic EVT models Aggregate risk and diversification Specific applications (operational and credit risk management) Theoretical and applied problems with Matlab. Keywords Risk management, extreme values, copula, volatility, credit risk, diversification, operational risk Learning Prerequisites Required courses At least a first university\u00a0course in probability and statistics Undergraduate calculus and linear algebra Some experience with Matlab Recommended courses Econometrics, quantitative methods in finance, a first course in time-series, knowledge of financial derivatives Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Implement risk management procedures in Matlab.Estimate market risk, credit risk, and operational riskCategorize the main sources of risksModel multivariate financial time seriesChoose an appropriate method for assessing the risk of a financial assetDiscuss Basel Accords Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture and problems in the classroom and at home Assessment methods Homework problems: 40% Final written exam: 60% Supervision Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "MATH-474", "name": "Statistics for genomic data analysis", "description": "After a short introduction to basic molecular biology and genomic technologies, this course covers the most useful statistical concepts and methods for the analysis of genomic data. Content Molecular biology and technology background Robust regression/High-density oligo array signal quantification/Quality assessment for Affymetrix GeneChips Hypothesis testing, anova, ROC curves\u00a0Identification of differentially expressed genesLinear models for designed experiments Resampling, bootstrapMultiple hypothesis testing Gene set enrichment analysis Cluster analysisMachine learning methods for discrimination Sequence data (NGS) analysis Additional topics as time permits: Meta-analysis of microarray studies; genome-wide association studies (GWAS); two-channel microarrays Keywords statistics; statistical methods; data analysis; DNA; RNA; mRNA; genomics; genomic data; microarray; sequencing data; NGS; NGS technologies; machine learning Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Elementary statistics Previous experience with R is helpful (but not necessary) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Apply appropriate methods to analyze genomic dataCarry out targeted analyses of genomic dataDesign genomic experiments Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture, computer practical exercises Expected student activities Regular attendance in class, practical exercises, prepare a short report (max. 10 pages) on an analysis of genomic data using tools and methods from the course Assessment methods Written report"}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-444", "name": "Advanced bioengineering methods laboratory", "description": "Advanced Bioengineering Methods Laboratories (ABML) offers laboratory practice and data analysis. These active sessions present a variety of techniques employed in the bioengineering field and matching a quantitative and technological based approach. Content Keywords Atomic force microscopy (AFM), Lab on the chip (LOC) , Brownian motion, Optical trapping , Surface Plasmon Resonance. bioanalytics, surface design, writing scientific papers Learning Prerequisites Required courses Required background: Biophysics I, Biothermodynamics, Biomicroscopy I, mandatory courses of M1 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Demonstrate oral and written communication skillsPerform experimentsCoordinate experimentsOperate the respective instruments of their assigned exercisesCompose a convincing research paper describing their research project following the style guides of a letter to Nature Expected student activities Beyond the work requested during the supervised sessions (practice and analysis), the student will have to: Read the introduction of each topic before the corresponding practice, and summarize this information in his laboratory notebook. 'Review the data analysis tools needed for the analysis sessions and prepare the required calculations ahead of the corresponding analysis session. Fill the laboratory notebook progressively along the semester. Develop a research plan for the independent project Write the research paper The workload varies widely with the capabilities of each student. However, we expect, for each of the 6 topics investigated, an approximate working time of 2 h : Preparation of the practical session' 4 h : Practical session\u00a0 \u00a0 Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "BIO-488", "name": "Scientific project design in translational oncology", "description": "The theme of the course is the role of inflammation in cancer. It focuses on the regulation and multifaceted functions of tumor-associated inflammatory cells, and how they promote or oppose cancer. Content The course will start with a short introduction by the teachers, who illustrate the focus of the course and the learning objectives. In the remaining classes the students will analyze, present and discuss research papers that have been agreed with the teachers. Part I ' Develop an encyclopedia The students develop an encyclopedia of the various inflammatory cell types and subtypes that have hallmark-promoting or antagonizing capabilities. Macrophages (i), neutrophils (ii), myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), T cells (iv) ' or subsets thereof ' will be definedand discussed with respect to their tumor-promoting or antagonizing functions. Part II ' To kill or reprogram? For each cell type/subtype, the students describe and discuss known strategies ' genetic or pharmacological ' to either kill the cell of interest or reprogram its functions in tumors. Part III ' Translation to cancer therapy For each cell type/subtype, the students design pre-clinical studies that can guide or incentivize clinical studies aimed at ablating or reprogramming the cell of interest in a suitable cancer type. Keywords Inflammation; Cancer; Immunity; Macrophage; Myeloid cell; T-cell; Tumor-promoting function; Tumor-antagonizing function; Mouse model of cancer; Cell reprogramming; Pre-clinical trial;Clinical trial. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Cancer biology I and II Learning Outcomes Design pre-clinical trials that can guide clinical trialsAnalyze presents and critically discuss the results of scientific papersDescribe the main characteristics and functions of the different inflammatory (immune) cell types/subtypes that are recruited to tumorsDiscuss the mechanisms whereby the distinct inflammatory (immune) cell types/subtypes regulate multiple hallmarks of cancerDescribe strategies (experimental or clinical, genetic or pharmacological) to interfere with the functions of the cells of interest and/or reprogram them from a tumor-promoting to a tumor-antagonizing activity."}
{"courseId": "PHYS-317", "name": "Optics I", "description": "This three-semester course series presents the basic concepts of classical and modern optics. It provides the students with tools for understanding and analyzing optical phenomena and designing various optical systems. Content 1. Electromagnetic Theory of Light1.1 Maxwell's equations in matter1.2 Wave equations and solutions1.3 Field energy and momentum1.4 Photons2. Propagation of Light2.1 Principles of Huygens and Fermat2.2 Fresnel equations2.3 Superposition of waves2.4 Gaussian beams3. Polarization3.1 Description of polarized light3.2 Dichroism and birefringence3.3 Polarizers and waveplates3.4 Propagation in anisotropic media4. Interference and Diffraction4.1 Multiple-beam interference4.2 Diffraction theory4.3 Fresnel and Fraunhofer diffractions4.4 Interferometers Learning Prerequisites Required courses Physics I, II, III and IV"}
{"courseId": "MATH-101(en)", "name": "Analysis I (English)", "description": "We study the fundamental concepts of analysis, calculus and the integral of real-valued functions of a real variable. Content - Reasoning , proving and arguing in mathematics - Numbers, structures and functions - Sequences, limit and continuity - Series of reals - Real-valued functions of a real variable and convergence - Differential Calculus and the Integral Keywords real numbers, function, sequence,convergent/divergent sequence, limit, subsequence, limit of a function, continuous function, series of real numbers, convergent/divergent series, absolute convergence, derivative, class C^k, mean value theorem, Taylor's theorem, Taylor series, Riemann integral, indefinite integral, intermediate valuetheorem \u00a0 Learning Outcomes The intended learning outcomes of this course are that students acquire the following capacities:Reason rigorously to analyse problemsChoose appropriate analytical tools for problem solving.Be able to conceptualise in view of the applications of analysis.Apply efficiently mathematical concepts for problem solving by means of examples and exercisesAnalyze and to solve new problems.Master the basic tools of analysis as, for example, notions of convergence, sequences and series.Studying rigorously real functions we intend that students will demonstrate a deep understanding of calculus Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture and exercises in the classroom Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "CS-454", "name": "Convex optimization and applications", "description": "Optimization is not only a major segment of applied mathematics, it is also a critical problem in many engineering and economic fields. In any situation where resources are limited, decision makers try to solve problems they face in the best possible manner. The course provides theory and practice. Content The class will cover topics such as:Convex sets and functionsRecognizing convex optimization problemsOptimality Conditions and DualityLinear Programming (geometry of linear programming, applications in network optimization, the simplex method)Least squares and quadratic programsSemidefinite programmingInterior point methods Keywords Convex Optimisation Learning Prerequisites Required courses A good background in linear algebra. Mastering MATLAB is a plus! Recommended courses Basic Linear Algebra Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Solve Convex optimization problems Teaching methods Ex-cathedra lectures and exercise sessions(in English). Assessment methods Midterm (25%) and final exam (50%). Small personal project (25%). Exams are open-text and on paper (no use of computers)"}
{"courseId": "FIN-522", "name": "Venture capital", "description": "The course applies finance tools and concepts to the world of venture capital and financing of projects in high-growth industries. Students are introduced to all institutional aspects of the venture capital industry. Students analyze various aspects of VC finance using an investors' perspective. Content 1. Introduction to venture capital 2. Methods for valuation of high-growth companies3. Venture capital investing and option pricing analysis Keywords Venture capital - Private equity - Finance of innovation - Valuation - Option pricing theory Learning Prerequisites Required courses Introduction to finance Recommended courses Investments Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe all the institutional aspects of the venture capital industry.Give an example of the asymmetric information problem that drives contracting in the venture capital industryRecall discounted cash-flow and comparables valuation techniquesApply finance tools and concepts to the world of venture capital and financing of projects in high-growth industries.Use option pricing techniques to price the preferred securities issued to venture capitalistsDescribe how leveraged buyout transactions work Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Summarize an article or a technical report. Teaching methods Lectures, homework, case studies, expert talks, exercises Assessment methods 30% Homework and case studies 25% midterm exam 45% Final exam \u00a0 Homework is open book. Midterm and final exam are closed-book. Supervision Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "ME-451", "name": "Advanced energetics", "description": "Methods for the rational use and conversion of energy in industrial processes : how to analyse the energy usage, calculate the heat recovery by pinch analysis, define heat exchanger network, integrate heat pumps and cogeneration units and realise exergy analysis of energy conversion systems. Content Rational use and conversion of energy in industrial processes.\u00a0Methodology for the energy efficiency audit of industrial processes. Principles of the exergy analysis of industrial processes and energy conversion systems. Principles of the process integration using the pinch analysis method. Identification of the process efficiency improvement options. Optimal integration of the energy conversion systems. Thermo-economic evaluation of energy savings options. Application to one industrial process case study. Keywords Energy efficiency, heat recovery, Energy conversion, Exergy analysis, Pinch analysis, Industrial processes Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses \u00a0 Master the concepts of mass, energy, and momentum balance, E1 (Thermodynamique et \u00e9nerg\u00e9tique I) Compute the thermodynamic properties of a fluid, E2 (Thermodynamique et \u00e9nerg\u00e9tique I) Master the concepts of heat and mass transfer, E3 (Heat and mass transfer) Understand the main thermodynamic cycles, E5 (Thermodynamique et \u00e9nerg\u00e9tique II) Calculate and design heat exchangers, E15 (heat and mass transfer) Notion of optimization (Introduction \u00e0 l'optimisation diff\u00e9rentiable) \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain and apply the concepts of thermodynamic efficiency, E6Establish the flow diagram of an industrial process and calculate the corresponding energy and mass balance, E22Analyse the energy and exergy efficiency of industrial energy systems, E23Explain the principles and limitations of the main energy conversion technologies, E7Understand the challenges related to energy: resources, energy services, economic and environmental impacts, E9 Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Write a scientific or technical report.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Make an oral presentation.Design and present a poster. Teaching methods The course is organised as theoretical sessions and the resolution of a real case study to be realised in a team project. Assessment methods The real case study will be presented (group presentation). An oral exam will concern the application of the theory in the case study."}
{"courseId": "PHYS-101(en)", "name": "General physics I (English)", "description": "Students will learn the principles of mechanics to enable a better understanding of physical phenomena, such as the kinematics and dyamics of point masses and solid bodies. Students will acquire the capacity to quantitatively analyze these effects with the appropriate theoretical tools. Content The course may contain, but not exclusively, the following elements : \u00a0Mechanics\u00a0Introduction and kinematicsReference frames, trajectories, velocity, acceleration, Cartesian, spherical and cylindrical coordinates.\u00a0Dynamics of the point mass and solid bodyMomentum, Newton's laws, fundamental forces, empirical forces and constraints. Oscillatory motion, Angular momentum.\u00a0Work, power, energyKinetic energy, potential energy, conservation laws, gravitational motion. Collisions. Keywords General physics, point masses, coordinates, kinematics, energy, work Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Math level required for \"maturit\u00e9 f\u00e9d\u00e9rale\", see on the left the hyperlinks and the book, indicative of the level of math appropriate for a good start at EPFL. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Develop a know-how to solve a problemStructure models in terms of differentials equationsApply simplifying assumptions to describe an experienceEstimate orders of magnitudeDistinguish the theoretical models describing NaturaContextualise theoretical models in every day lifeFormulate a physical model Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Lectures exercises Assessment methods The course concludes with a written exam Resources Bibliography Serway,\u00a0Physics for Scientists and Engineers. Douglas Giancoli. Physics for Scientists and Engineers. 4th Edition. D. Halliday, R. Resnick, K. S. Krane. Physics, Volume 1. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que La M\u00e9canique / AnsermetConceptual Physics / HewittMooc-M\u00e9canique / Ansermet Physics for scientists and engineers / GiancoliPhysique G\u00e9n\u00e9rale / Alonso"}
{"courseId": "BIO-467", "name": "Scientific literature analysis in Bioengineering", "description": "Students are given the means to dig effectively into modern scientific literature in the multidisciplinary field of bioengineering. The method relies on granting sufficient time to become familiar with the background and hypotheses, on effective support during the analysis and on oral assessment. Content The scientific literature proposed includes traditional subjects as well as topics of recent interest in the bioengineering field and more specifically on (i) cell and molecular engineering, (ii) analytics and (iii) neuroprosthetics. The course in ialso supported by the EPFL librarian team to discuss principles and tools related to scientific databases and literature search.\u00a0 \u00a0 Keywords literature-analysis, \u00a0bioengineering, bioanalytics, immunoengineering, cellular engineering, molecular engineering, biosensors, lab-on-a-chip, neuroprosthetics Learning Prerequisites Required courses none Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze scientific papers in a selection of bioengineering fieldsInterpret the results reported in the scientific literatureCompare results with claimsCompare among different papers the respective approaches chosen to a similar aimSynthesize the main messages of a scientific workDifferentiate review and original works and other paper typesSearch scientific literature effectively Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingMake an oral presentation.Summarize an article or a technical report.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art. Teaching methods (i) Supervised work on 5 sets of scientific papers.\u00a0 For each set, students will have one first week to consult, understand, do additional lietrature search on the papers. At the end of the week the student participate in a working session with one assistant per group of students (group composed of three students). A second week is given for the preparation of a presentation and question and answer session on the papers.\u00a0 \u00a0 (ii) Literature search and reporting Each student indepedently performs a literature serch on a theme of choice on which he/she will work for approx two weeks. Specific guidelines are given to report on this activity and the work is supervised by the assistants and by the teacher as well. Expected student activities Study 5 sets of papers through the semester. \u00a0Carry on additional literature search for critical assessment of the papers and for deeper understanding of the field, application, scientific questions addressed by the papers. Work in groups of 3 students and prepare group presentations (one per set of papers). Participate actively to the discussion on the work perfomed by the other groups.\u00a0 Perform a literature search on a topic of choice and prepare a report according to a template.\u00a0 Assessment methods Evaluation of preparation of the papers and related material.\u00a0 Evaluation of group presentations (5 through the semester) Evaluation of participation to the discussions related to the work reported by the other groups.\u00a0 Evaluation of the report on individial literature search.\u00a0 Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No Others Office Hours on appointment"}
{"courseId": "BIO-213", "name": "Biological chemistry III", "description": "The course will provide students with a deeper knowledge of the structure and function of proteins, the biological purposes of post-translational modifications, protein-protein interactions and signaling pathways in healthy and cancerous cells. Content The course covers the following topics: ' Protein structure, folding, analysis of proteins Protein expression and purification Protein structure determination Posttranslational modifications (PTM) Ia: Phosphorylation (Mechanisms) PTMs Ib: Phosphorylation (Kinase/Phosphatase structure and regulation) PTMs II III: Ubiquitination and Acylation PTM IV: Histone modifications Protein engineering and Synthetic biology Proteomics and protein interaction networks Protein-protein interaction domains Deregulated signaling networks in cancer Drug discovery and chemical biology I Drug discovery and chemical biology II \u00a0 Keywords Amino acids, Protein structure, biochemical methods, signaling, cancer, drugs Learning Prerequisites Required courses Organic Chemistry, CB I and II Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Interpret protein structuresPlan protein purification strategiesCategorize post-translational modifications and their biological functionsInterpret experiments using antibodiesClassify protein-protein interaction domains and how they contribute to molecular networksCharacterize signaling pathwyays Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Respect relevant legal guidelines and ethical codes for the profession. Teaching methods Lectures, exercises Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-449", "name": "Tissue engineering", "description": "Introduction into theoretical and practical aspects of Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine with particular interest in organ tissue engineering Content Multidisciplinary lectures covering pre- and postnatal tissue engineering in urology, for diaphragmatic hernia, pancreatic, and cartilage and bone regeneration. Further, growt factor and stem cell biology as well as bioreactor technology for tissue engineering application will be discussed. In addition specific matrix biology for tissue engineering products, in particular the fibrin technology will be evocated, with a particular interest in the prevention of scar tissue formation. Presentation of ethical issues in regenerative medicine. \u00a0 Keywords Tissue engineering Molecular biology Growth factor biology Stem cell biology Clinical application Fetal Medicine Congenital malformation Learning Prerequisites Required courses Bachelor Recommended courses Molecular biology Polymer science Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Operate tissue engineering tasksConduct a minor tissue engineering projectConduct an ethical reviewTranslate theory into practice of tissue engineering Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures. Teaching methods Course ex cathedra and tissue engineering personal projects Expected student activities Individual or group preparation of essays (exercises), which will be presented to the Tissue Engineering Class students at the end of the course Assessment methods Essay presentation Final written exam in form of a open-book essay Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "ENV-719", "name": "Localization and Navigation Methods", "description": "Transmitting to the student state-of-the art methods and research topics in localization and navigation algorithms and systems. Students will be able to put in practice their knowledge in a course project and by three labs involved in the course. Lectures are concentrated in the first 5 weeks of Content Week 1: Satellite positioning (Prof. Bertrand Merminod) '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Satellite orbit motion, Kepler's laws, broadcast and precise ephemeris '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Description of GPS signal structure and derivation of observables '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Inventory of error sources, random and non-random effects '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Derivation of mathematical models for absolute and differential positioning. '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Estimation of the position and its precision based on least-square principle analysis '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Overview of GNSS '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Lab assignments: Absolute GPS positioning with and without approximation Week 2: Wireless location and state-space estimation (Dr. Cyril Botteron) '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Fundamentals of radio-frequency propagation and positioning '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Time and angle observables and associated error sources '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Kalman filtering applied to kinematic positioning '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Location with wireless computer network '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Ultra-wide band positioning principles '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Outdoor and indoor personal location, asset tracking '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Lab assignment: Kalman Filtering in kinematic positioning Week 3: Trajectory and attitude determination with INS/GNSS (Dr. Jan Skaloud) '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Inertial sensors, inertial systems\u00a0 '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Linear dynamical systems, stochastic differential equations '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Inertial strapdown mechanization equations in (i,e,n) frames '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 INS strapdown error equations and calibration states '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Alignment models '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Redundant IMU configurations '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Prediction, filtering, smoothing and calibration '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 No lab assignments Week 4: Trajectory and attitude determination via optical positioning and dynamic networks, integrated sensor orientation (Dr. Jan Skaloud) '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Colineraity condition for 0-D, 1-D and 2-D optical sensors '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Sensor models and observations, feature matching '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Principle of integrated sensor orientation. Orientation vs calibration '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Formulation of INS/GNSS/optical-sensor case in dynamic networks, numerical issues '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Lab assignment to select among visionary sensors; 1. oscillating cams & ALS; 2.\u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 1-line-camera and ALS; etc.\u00a0 Week 5: Localization and Navigation in Mobile Robotics (Prof. Alcherio Martinoli) '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Overview of localization techniques in mobile robotics\u00a0 (off-board/on-board;\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 absolute/relative) '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Basic kinematic models (differential drive, Ackerman steering vehicles) '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Odometry '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Feature-based localization '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Kalman filtering and particle filtering techniques applied to mobile robots '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Multi-robot localization '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Fundamental of navigation (path planning, landmark-based navigation) '\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 No lab assignments Keywords Navigation, Localization, Kalman Filtering, Estimation Methods Learning Prerequisites Required courses Least-square adjustment. \u00a0 \u00a0 Recommended courses Recommended Bachelor courses:Advanced Satellite Positioning and/or Sensor Orientation. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Compute user position from observed ranges using satellites. Compute user position from observed ranges using beacons of ultra-wide-band. Implement Kalman Filter. Predict position precision via covariance propagation. Integrate inertial signals. Formulate collinearity equations for optical sensors of different types. Understand robot localization techniques and formulate kinematic models for robots."}
{"courseId": "PHYS-719", "name": "Advanced biomedical imaging methods and instrumentation", "description": "The main goal of this course is to give the student a solid introduction into approaches, methods, and instrumentation used in biomedical research. A major focus is on Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and related methods, but other imaging modalities will be increasingly covered. Content Introduction (Bloch equations; Components of an MRI systems; Peamplifier, ADC;Longitudinal interference)MRI basics (Spin-warp imaging, slice selection, EPI;Fourier image reconstruction, zero-filling apodization; -space imaging strategies - what defines contrast;Gbbs ringing and other artefacts)Hardware of imaging (Gradient coils - eddy currents; Shimming: Theory of coil design, spherical harmonics; field mapping and shim methods)Localization methods for MRS (ISIS, PRESS, STEAMl;Chemical shift displacement error;Water suppression methods, fat suppression methods, dynamic range)Multinuclear MRS in an inhomogenous RF field (Localization methods (PT, DEPT, HH);Decoupling, WALTZ, adiabatic decoupling;Adiabatic RF pulses;Absolute quantification (water, external, internal))Moving magnetization (Artifact recognition - bases of artifacts; 2nd moment nulling, PC flow imaging, TOF; Triggering and synchronization)Diffusion MR(Stejskal-tanner, b value, Einstein-stokes relationship; Restricted vs. hindered diffusion; q-space imaging; DTI and fiber tracking)Perfusion imaging(Pulsed arterial spin labeling, FAIR, EPISTAR;Continuous arterial spin labeling)Magnetization transfer(MTC imaging, Solomon equations;Saturation transfer experiments)Rf coils(Theory of matching;Coil design surface coil TEM coil;Diel effects, coil loading and efficiency)Imaging sequences (STEAM, SE, FSE (CPMG), FLASH, SSFP)fMRI(BOLD effect, SE vs GE imaging;Pharmacological MRI;Biophysical basis)Modeling (Tracer kinetics;Uptake curves) Note Above program is preliminary and for the first year only. May change to include other modalities as well in future years"}
{"courseId": "BIO-318", "name": "Scientific project design in synthetic biology (iGEM)", "description": "An interdisciplinary EPFL student team will design and build genetic circuits with novel functionalities. Students learn to develop a project and carry it out to completion in a concrete manner. Their creativity and critical thinking are highly encouraged. Content The first part of the course consists of a broad introduction to genetic engineering, synthetic biology, computational biology, and related fields. During this time, students will brainstorm potential projects, from which one will be selected. The team will then model and ultimately build the proposed genetically engineered machine in the wet-lab portion of the project during the summer. Due to the interdisciplinary nature of the course, students with a wide variety of backgrounds will constitute the team and therefore facilitate information and knowledge exchange amongst team members.A purely bioinformatic iGEM track is also available, generating the possibility to have a second, smaller team work solely on computational and bioinformatic aspects of genetic engineering either as a stand-alone team or in conjunction with the applied project.\u00a0Important remark: Only a limited number of spots will be available each year and we expect a highly competitive process for selecting team participants. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Discuss the definition of synthetic biology and how this discipline enables the engineering of biological systemsDevelop a project/idea and generate a roadmap on how to execute this projectConduct independent experiments in a research labOrganize themselves to finish a research projectPresent and defend a research project in front of a panel of international judgesOperate in a multidisciplinary group having acquired both leadership and team spirit-oriented skillsAssess / Evaluate the progress and outcome of a research project and to contribute to this project in creative fashionDiscuss the societal implications of synthetic biology, clarifying its pros and cons"}
{"courseId": "ME-602", "name": "Modelling, optimisation, design and analysis of integrated energy systems", "description": "The student will learn advanced concepts in the field of process integration, process modeling and optimization for the design of integrated energy systems: Life cycle energy analysis. Content Advanced process integration techniques based on mixed integer programming for site scale energy system integration. Integration of advanced energy conversion technologies including cogeneration, heat pumps and refrigeration systems in industrial processes and urban communities. Combined integration of heat and water for the design of integrated system. Process integration of batch and discontinuous processes. Definition of objective functions based on life cycle & energy analysis. Multi-objective optimization including energetic, environmental and economic parameters. Application to the design of integrated energy systems: zero emission plants, advanced cycles including combined cycles, thermal solar plants, hybrid solar combined cycles. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Process integration (advanced energy systems), modeling and optimization of energy systems, thermodynamics, basic in optimization techniques"}
{"courseId": "MATH-261", "name": "Discrete optimization", "description": "This course is an introduction to linear and discrete optimization. We will discuss linear programming and combinatorial optimization problems like bipartite matchings, shortest paths and flows. Warning: This course is for mathematicians! Strong emphasis is put on formal mathematical proofs. Content Linear Programming Simplex Algorithm Cycling and termination of the simplex algorithm Algorithms and Running times Diameter of Polyhedra Duality Theory Graphs and shortest paths Max. weight bipartite matchings Maximum flows Keywords Linear Programming Algorithms Complexity Graphs Learning Prerequisites Required courses Linear Algebra Discrete Mathematics or Discrete Structures Important concepts to start the course The student needs to be able to prove theorems Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose appropriate method for solving basic discrete optimization problemProve basic theorems in linear optimizationInterpret computational results and relate to theoryImplement basic algorithms in linear optmizationDescribe methods for solving linear optimization problemsCreate correctness and running time proofs of basic algorithmsSolve basic linear and discrete optimization problems Transversal skills Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture, exercises in the classroom and with a computer Expected student activities Attendance of lectures and exercises Completion of exercises Solving supplementary programs with the help of a computer Assessment methods Written exam during the exam session"}
{"courseId": "EE-425", "name": "HF and VHF circuits and techniques I", "description": "Master the design of circuits and systems at high frequency (HF) and very high frequency (VHF) (1 MHz-6GHz). This lecture is particularly oriented towards circuit aspects of modern communications systems. Content 1) HF Passive Components2) Resonant Circuits3) Impedance Matching4) HF Filters5) Noise and Intermodulation6) Modeling and Characterization of Transistors at HF7) Design of HF Small-Signal Amplifiers Keywords HF and VHF wireless communication circuits RF wireless communication circuits Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Electronic circuits and systems I and II Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design an electrical filterModel an amplifierCarry out the design of an impedance matching circuitAssess / Evaluate the noise figure of an amplifierAssess / Evaluate the quality factor of a passive impedanceAssess / Evaluate the equivalent noise sources of an amplifierAssess / Evaluate the model of a transistor in HF and VHFAssess / Evaluate the properties of a resonant passive circuit Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Manage priorities.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner. Teaching methods Ex cathedra and exercices Assessment methods Written Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Notes/Handbook Polycopies and scientific articles. Websites http://rfic.epfl.ch Moodle Link http://To be re-activated at the beginning of the semester Videos http://No video"}
{"courseId": "BIO-469", "name": "Scientific project design in regenerative medicine and diagnostics", "description": "In this course students will be exposed to the fields of regenerative medicine and molecular diagnostics with a specific focus on how scientific developments in these fields are translated to the market through the formation of start-up companies. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Develop a project in the field of regenerative medicine or diagnostics Transversal skills Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingMake an oral presentation.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods The course will consist of one introductory lecture to the fields of regenerative medicine and diagnostics, followed by several presentations by representatives from early-, mid-, and late-stage startup companies. During the first half of the semester students will form teams and develop project ideas for a potential start-up company. During the second half of the semester each team is expected to prepare a scientific project description, a business plan, and a patent disclosure. At the end of the course, each team will \"pitch\" their start-up comapny in an oral presentation given to the rest of the class."}
{"courseId": "PHYS-443", "name": "Neutronics", "description": "In this course, one acquires an understanding of the basic neutronics interactions occurring in a nuclear fission reactor and, as such, the conditions for establishing and controlling a nuclear chain reaction. Content \u00a0 Brief review of nuclear physics- Historical: Constitution of the nucleus and discovery of the neutron - Nuclear reactions and radioactivity - Cross sections - Differences between fusion and fission. Nuclear fission- Characteristics - Nuclear fuel - Introductory elements of neutronics.- Fissile and fertile materials - Breeding. Neutron diffusion and slowing down- Monoenergetic neutrons - Angular and scalar flux - Diffusion theory as simplified case of transport theory - Neutron slowing down through elastic scattering. Multiplying media (reactors)- Multiplication factors - Criticality condition in simple cases. - Thermal reactors - Neutron spectra - Multizone reactors - Multigroup theory and general criticality condition - Heterogeneous reactors. Reactor kinetics- Point reactor model: prompt and delayed transients - Practical applications. Reactivity variations and control- Short, medium and long term reactivity changes. Different means of control. \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Elaborate on neutron diffusion equationSystematize nuclear reaction cross sectionsFormulate approximations to solving the diffusion equation for simple systems Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Collect data.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and tools Teaching methods Lectures, numerical exercises"}
{"courseId": "MGT-603", "name": "Qualitative Research Methods", "description": "This course offers an introduction to qualitative research methods for engineers. Content Participants will learn about the usefulness of qualitative research methods, the philosophical and theoretical underpinnings of this type of research, the various approaches and schools of thought, as well as about particular research methods. Finally, the course will also place qualitative approaches and methods within the broader research design, i.e., in the case of engineers, often as a complement to quantitative research. But most of all, the course will help the participants to make progress in the formulation of their problem statement, their research design, qualitative data collection, and analysis of qualitative data. The syllabus is available on the below link."}
{"courseId": "ME-474", "name": "Numerical flow simulation", "description": "This course provides practical experience in the numerical simulation of fluid flows, comprising the three fundamental phases of pre-processing (geometry and mesh creation), computation (choice of physical models & numerical methods), and post-processing (quantitative analysis and visualization). Content Numerical flow simulation (or Computational Fluid Dynamics) is an essential component of modern fluid mechanics. The objective of this course is to use the student's existing knowledge in fluid mechanics and numerical methods as a basis for a global introduction to numerical flow simulation.\u00a0An overview of the general theoretical concepts - such as mesh generation algorithms, turbulence modelling, resolution\u00a0of the Navier-Stokes equations, scientific visualization - is provided in the lectures. State-of-the-art commercial and open-source software packages are used to study\u00a0practical applications via worked flow cases, exercises and a mini-project. Keywords Numerical simulation, Fluid mechanics, Mesh generation, Scientific visualization Learning Prerequisites Required courses Fluid mechanics Numerical analysis Discretization methods (e.g. finite differences, finite elements, finite volumes) Important concepts to start the course Computer-aided design (CAD) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Identify the crucial aspects present in a real flow in order to propose an appropriate modelling , AH10Identify the different steps in a numerical simulation (e.g. geometry and mesh generation, computation, post - processing) and integrate all the essential basic concepts in a numerical flow simulation , AH 23Choose the appropriate wall treatment model for a given turbulent flow , AH 26Choose the appropriate physical models and numerical methods to compute a physically-complex flow, such as a non-Newtonian, free surface or multiphase flow , AH 27Analyse numerical solutions and identify any inconsistencies with respect to physical reality; understand and apply the concepts of verification and validation , AH 29Perform a numerical simulation with appropriate software; understand the limits of each software in terms of its application domain and accuracy of the results obtained , AH41 Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Use both general and domain specific IT resources and toolsWrite a scientific or technical report.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals. Teaching methods Lectures, Worked flows examples, Practical exercises on workstations, Mini-project Expected student activities Participation in classroom (e.g. worked flow cases) Practical exercises Mini-project (including written report) Assessment methods Written examination (50%), mini-project report (50%) Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-446", "name": "Reactor Experiments", "description": "The reactor experiments course aims to introduce the students to radiation detection techniques and nuclear reactor experiments. The core of the course is the unique opportunity to conduct reactor experiments, as the control rod calibration, and approach to critical. Content Radiation detector systems, alpha and beta particles Radiation detector systems, gamma spectroscopy Introduction to neutron detectors (He-3, BF3) Slowing-down area (Fermi age) of Pu-Be neutrons in H2O Approach-to-critical experiments Buckling measurements Reactor power calibration Control rod calibration Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Apply measurement techniques for alpha, beta, gamma and neutron radiation detection.Carry out measurement techniques to obtain CROCUS reactor characteristics.Conduct both reactor power and control rod calibration.Plan the critical experiment. Teaching methods Instructions and supervision during lab work"}
{"courseId": "BIO-640", "name": "Practical - Van der Goot Lab", "description": "Membrane organization. Investigate the compartmentalisation of biological membranes: what are the determinants of the localization of transmembrane proteins in the 2 dimensional space of the membranes? Content Introduction, isolation of membrane domains (tissue culture, subcellular fractionation, SDS-PAGE, western blotting), cellular localization of membrane proteins (immunofluorescence). Note Note that while the course is open to all 1st year EPFL doctoral students, priority will be given to EDMS students, given that they are mandated to take three EDMS practical modules. Note also that doctoral students from the van der Goot laboratory cannot take this course. Access is limited to 3 students. Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Basic knowledge of cellular and membrane biology."}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-442", "name": "Biomaterials", "description": "This course covers the fundamental concepts behind the design, function and application of state-of-the-art biomaterials, that is, materials that are designed based on a molecular understanding of their interactions with biological systems. Content Part I: Biological fundamentals Cells, extracellular matrices and tissues Proteins and protein adsorption, immunological aspects of biomaterials Stem cells and tissue regeneration Angiogenesis Part II: Biomaterials classes Biomaterials for devices, structural and chemically degradable biomaterials Micro- and nanoparticles Extracellular matrix-mimicking biomaterials Hydrogels as biomaterials Self-assembly and supramolecular biomaterials Biomaterials for gene delivery and vaccination Part III: Emerging design and applications of biomaterials Tailoring materials for stem cell biology Biomaterials for tissue engineering Biomaterials for modulation of the immune system High-throughput screening of biomateriials \u00a0 Keywords Cells, extracellular matrix, tissue, regeneration, angiogenesis, biodegradable materials, hydrogels, drug delivery, micro- and nano-particles, self-assembly, high-throughput screening, stem cell engineering, materials for immunemodulation Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Biology I Stem cell biology and technology Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Elaborate key effectors and their functions driving protein- and cell-materials interactionsFormulate the basics of inflammation induced by materials in the bodyElaborate the basics of stem cell function and tissue regeneration, and how materials can influence regenerationSystematize the different general applications of biomaterialsSystematize the different general applications of biomaterialsContextualise specific examples of biomaterials on the basis of application and understands their selection criteriaJudge the suitability of a material for a certain application based on structure-property relationshipsFormalize the key concepts in the molecular engineering of bioactivity and bioresponsiveness Transversal skills Collect data.Summarize an article or a technical report.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, group case study, literature review Expected student activities reading key literature before each course as preparation group case study critical literature review as exercise Assessment methods exercise: 15% group project: 15% written exam: 70%"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-523", "name": "Optical detectors", "description": "Students analyse the fundamental characteristics of optical detectors. Thermal and photoemissive devices as well as photodiodes and infrared sensors are studied. CCD and CMOS cameras are analysed in detail. Single photon detection is explained. Content Introduction: Electromagnetic radiation, radiometric quantities, interaction of light with matter, classification of detectors, noise sources, detector figures of merit. Opticla methods: few exemples: Synchrone detection and interferometers, position sensors, 3D imaging, Fourier optics and microscopy. Thermal detectors: Basic relationships, bolometers, thermocouples, pyroelectric detectors, applications. Photoemissive detectors: External photoeffect, vacuum photodiodes, photomultipliers, microchannels, applications Photovoltaic detectors: Photodiodes (p-n diodes, p-i-n diodes, schottky diodes), avalanche photodiodes, noise sources, ultimate limits of photovoltaic photodectection. Ultra-fast photodiodes: interface electronics, bandwidth, travelling wave photodiodes, Bit-Error-Rate, eye diagram, telecom applications. CCD cameras: Charge Coupled Devices (CCD): CCD principles and building blocks, CCD charge transport and image sensor architectures CMOS cameras: Photocharge detection, photodiodes in CMOS, traditional MOS photodiodes array sensor architectures, noise in photo detection systems, the APS (Active Pixel Sensor). Infrared detectors: Photoconductors, MCT cameras, QWIP. Single photon detection: PMT and photon counting, intensified CCD, electron bombarded CCD, electron multiplying CCD, SPAD and avalanche effect. Keywords Photodetectors, photodiodes, CCD cameras, CMOS cameras, single photon Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Bachelor in microengineering or in electrical and electronic engineering. Courses: \"physique III et IV\", \"composants semiconducteurs\", \"\u00e9lectronique I et II\", \"ing\u00e9nierie optique I\" et \"capteurs\". Important concepts to start the course Semiconductor physics, diodes and transistors, electronic amplifiers, optical lenses, micro-fabricated sensors. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze the basics characteristics and the principles used in optical sensors.Develop the physical models for different photodetectorsFormulate fundamental equations describing the behavior of optical detectorsOptimize the photosensitive pixel.Design cameras adapted to different optical applicationsInterpret the datasheets of commercial optical sensors Transversal skills Summarize an article or a technical report. Teaching methods ex-cathedra courses and exercises. Course will be teached in English but the slides and the script will content some french explanations Expected student activities Regular attendance to lectures Resolution of exercises as home work prior to the session Assessment methods Oral exam during the exam session with 15 minutes preparation and 15 minutes discussion with teacher and oberver (100% of final grade) Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No Others Students can directly contact the teacher at any time"}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-430", "name": "Introduction to cellular and molecular biotechnology", "description": "The course presents comparatively several topics at the interface between bioengineering and chemical engineering. Special emphasis is put on biocatalysis to reduce both the costs and the environmental impact of production processes. Content This lecture reviews the various facets of contemporary biotechnology. Numerous examples of applications related to medicine, the pharma industry, agriculture, and environmental issues will be presented. The molecular and cellular biology underlying these applications will be explained. Several practical examples will be discussed : the development and use of biocatalysts to reduce the environmental impact of production processes will be discussed in depth. Keywords Biotechnology, gene expression, trasngenesis, biocatalysis, green chemistry. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the mechanisms of gene expressionExplain the properties and advantages of biotatalysisCompare and contrast biocatalysis with all the other types of catalysisApply algorithms to solves life sciences related questionsAnalyze raw experimental data relataed to life sciences and draw from them the right conclusionsAnalyze and compare the environmental impact of 2 production processes Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines. Teaching methods Lectures. Expected student activities In addition to attendance to the lectures, two weekly hours of personnal work are expected. Assessment methods Written exam. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No Forum No"}
{"courseId": "EE-715", "name": "Optimal control", "description": "The objective of the course is to familiarize the students with the theoretical and numerical issues associated with optimal control problems. The course delivers two main competences, i.e., knowledge to formulate and analyze optimization problems and insights into numerical solution techniques. Content The course will cover the following topics: The classical problem of the calculus of variations Pontryagin's maximum principle Necessary conditions of optimality (NCO) Dynamic programming and the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation Closed-loop form solution for LQ optimal control problems Solution methods Analytical solution approach (type and sequence of arcs in optimal solutions) Indirect solution techniques Discretization approaches (control vector parameterization, orthogonal collocation) Optimization in the presence of uncertainty Robust optimization Incorporation of measurements in the optimization framework Model predictive control and repeated optimization Measurement-based optimization via NCO tracking Applications from the domain of parameter estimation, dynamic processes, etc. Assessment methods Oral exam, written exam and project report."}
{"courseId": "CS-498", "name": "Project in computer science II", "description": "Individual research during the semester under the guidance of a professor or an assistant. Content Subject to be chosen among the themes proposed on the web site : \u00a0 http://ic.epfl.ch/semester_projects_by_laboratory Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Organize a projectAssess / Evaluate one's progress through the course of the projectPresent a project Transversal skills Write a scientific or technical report.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art. Assessment methods Written report and oral presentation"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-511", "name": "Image processing I", "description": "Introduction to the basic techniques of image processing. Introduction to the development of image-processing software and to prototyping in JAVA. Application to real-world examples in industrial vision and biomedical imaging. Content \u00a0 Introduction. Image processing versus image analysis. Applications. System components. Characterization of continuous images. Image classes. 2D Fourier transform. Shift-invariant systems. Image acquisition. Sampling theory. Acquisition systems. Histogram and simple statistics. Linear and Max-Lloyd Quantization. Characterization of discrete images and linear filtering. z-transform. Convolution. Separability. FIR and IIR filters. Image-processing operations. Point operators (thresholding, histogram modification). Spatial operators (smoothing, enhancement, nonlinear filtering). Morphological operators. Introduction to image analysis and computer vision. Segmentation, edge detection, objet detection, image comparison. \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Required courses Signals and Systems I & II (or equivalent) Important concepts to start the course 1-D signal processing:\u00a0convolution, Fourier transform, z-transform\u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Exploit the multidimensional Fourier transformSelect appropriately Hilbert spaces and inner-productsOptimize 2-D sampling to avoid aliasingFormalize convolution and optical systemsDesign digital filters in 2-DAnalyze multidimensional linear shift-invariant systemsApply image-analysis techniquesConstruct image-processing softwareElaborate morphological filters"}
{"courseId": "ENV-406", "name": "Biomineralization: from nature to application", "description": "Understanding process and role of biomineralization (minerals formed by living organisms) in context of Earth's evolution,global chemical cycles, climatic changes and remediation. Content Biomineralization refers to the processes by which organisms form minerals. It is therefore, by definition, a highly multidisciplinary field that spans both the inorganic and the organic world. The phenomenon of biomineralization is relevant to the Earth, Environmental and Life Sciences on practically all length scales. From the immense scale of reef-systems and global ocean life-cycles to small bacterial communities, the impact of biominera\u00adliza\u00adtion spans length scales of at least 12 orders of magnitude and a large fraction of geological time! But despite the global environmental impact of biomineralization and its funda\u00admental scien\u00adti\u00adfic importance, there are still many open questions about the basic biological mecha\u00adnisms involved. This class aims at giving the student an insight into the study of fundamental biological processes that shape biominerals and determine their chemical and isotopic composition. The physiology of biomineralization, matrix-mediated control of biominerals, cell-environment interface will be discussed for a number of organisms, including bacteria, corals, foraminifera and sponges. The occurrence of biominerals in the geologic record and their use as paleo-climate recorders will be discussed together with biomineralization induced by bacteria, with important implications for mineral ore formation and remediation of contaminated sites. Keywords General principles of biomineralization - controlled versus induced, properties, diversity The origin of Biomineralization Large scale biomineralization patterns through Earth history Present day pattern of biomineralization Biomineralization and global elemental cycles Biomineralization and global environmental change (e.g. ocean acidification) Biominerals as proxies for past environmental change Carbonate biomineralization processes for specific organisms: corals, sponges, foraminifera Silicon biomineralization Biomineralization by bacteria and environmental applications Bones and teeth and their applications to describe environmental conditions. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Basic courses in mathematics, physics, chemistry and geology. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Assess / Evaluate literature on biomineralizationChoose a topic within the context provided by the lecturesCompose a written review of the selected literatureDefend the written text with an oral presentation Transversal skills Summarize an article or a technical report.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Make an oral presentation.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art. Teaching methods The class will consist of lectures given by international experts in topics related to biomineralization. Students will prepare presentations of specific topics/papers for discussing Expected student activities Students will attend lectures and lab classes and participate in discussions. Students will write a project on a topic chosen in collaboration with the teachers and present the project at the end of the semester. Assessment methods Students will be evaluated for their written report (75%) and it presentation (25%)."}
{"courseId": "HUM-429(b)", "name": "Philosophy of life sciences II", "description": "Evaluate the main positions in a chosen philosophical debate. Develop, possibly in a group, a solid approach to one or more philosophical problems of that debate. Defend your analysis and conclusions. Content See the full description of the course in the Introduction to project of the fall semester HUM-429(a). The content depends on the chosen project. The topic for the project has to be linked to the lecture/seminar of the previous term (HUM-429(a) Philosophy of life sciences I). Learning Prerequisites Required courses Philosophy of life sciences I (HUM-429a) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Synthesize philosophical problems of a debate.Analyze philosophical texts on your own.Assess / Evaluate arguments and positions on your own.Develop a solid approach to philosophical problems of a debate.Assess / Evaluate philosophical arguments and positions together with other people (members of the project group/superviser).Critique others (members of the project group/supervisor).Defend your analysis and results.Generalize particular problems and arguments. Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Negotiate effectively within the group.Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods Supervision by e-mail and meetings during the spring term. (More information and the precise schedule are provided at the beginning of the academic year) Expected student activities Realisation of a philosophical project according to the schedule (individual project or group project) that requires notably a critical lecture of articles and books (mostly in English), high level writing skills, working discipline and time management (the official workload of 90h for the SHS program are in fact required for good results). (More information and the precise schedule are provided at the beginning of the academic year) Assessment methods Realisation of the philosophical project (individual essay or group essay) according to the schedule and general philosophical standards and presentation of the essay to the other participants of the course. (More information on philosophical standards and the precise schedule for the spring term are provided at the beginning of the academic year and during supervision of the project)"}
{"courseId": "EE-584", "name": "Spacecraft design and system engineering", "description": "The main objective of the course is to introduce the concept of space system design and engineering. The course will describe the various subsystems involved in the design of a satellite. It will also describe the techniques of systems engineering that are used to obtain a coherent satellite design. Content Introduction Highlights of space mission organization and engineering. Mission objectives, science objectives, mission architectures. Conception and Design of spacecraft General description of the space environment and survivability, and spacecraft subsystems including: science instruments, telecommunications, power management and distribution, command and data handling, thermal control, propulsion, structures and mechanisms, configuration, end-to-end information system, flight software. System Engineering Techniques Presentation of the major system engineering techniques: functional analysis, block diagrams, design trade-offs, design budgets, interface management, tradable parameters. Introduction to Project Engineering Other project considerations for a system engineer: requirements definition and tracking, spacecraft integration and test, mission operations, reliability and quality assurance, cost and risk management. Keywords satellites, space system, space environment and and orbital mechanics Learning Prerequisites Required courses None. Recommended courses Prof. Claude Nicollier's class. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Structure a space project in development phasesFormulate the tasks and responsibilities of the system engineerDimension the overall systemDimension each satellite subsystemElaborate a coherent and consistent system designDesign a space missionIntegrate constraints due to the space environment Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Write a scientific or technical report. Expected student activities Design work every week, mid-term report. Assessment methods final report and presentation."}
{"courseId": "MSE-653", "name": "CCMX Advanced Course - Inorganic Particle Synthesis by Precipitation: From Nanoparticles to Self-organised  Mesocrystals and from Theory to Practice", "description": "The basics behind precipitation of particles in theory and in practice will be introduced. Fundamental concepts of supersaturation, nucleation, growth and aggregation will be discussed. Some basic methods used for inorganic powder and particles characterisation will also be briefly introduced. Content ' Precipitation basics ' supersaturation, nucleation, growth and aggregation ' Powder characterisation ' particle size, surface area, morphology (microscopy), X-ray powder diffraction, zeta potential and thermogravimetric analysis ' Precipitation in practice ' reactor engineering ' from batch to continuous reactors ' 'Sol-gel' routes in both aqueous and non-aqueous environments and polyol routes ' Modelling ' solution thermodynamics, kinetics (population balance), aggregation, self-assembly ' Case studies ' Superparamagnetic iron oxides, towards Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) for biomedical applications Please note that while the theory presented in this course applies to many types of materials, the practical examples concentrate on inorganic materials. Also due to limited time only a brief overview of the theory can be given although key references for more advanced analysis are provided throughout. Note This course is open to participants with a basic background in materials science, chemistry and physics. It is mandatory to register on the CCMX website for this course. Keywords precipitation; inorganic powders; supersaturation; nucleation mechanism; growth mechanism; aggregation mechanism; characterisation; reactors; sol-gel routes; aqueous; non-aqueous; thermodynamic modelling, kinetic modelling"}
{"courseId": "BIO-670", "name": "Lectures in Life Sciences", "description": "To expose PhD students to cutting-edge research in the life sciences through attendance of plenary-style lecture series given by external world experts. The objectives are to broaden the knowledge of students and expose them to the diversity of life science studies. Content This cross-disciplinary course will increase our students' comprehension in a broad range of fields of research and reinforce interactions within the EPFL life science school. The course comprises a series of lectures in various fields of life science by internationally renowned scientists (mainly from abroad). Students will read one review about the topic that is covered by each lecturer to be prepared.Lectures will include an overview of the field and will be given in a way to be understandable to students despite the diversity of covered topics. These lectures include a general discussion between speakers and audience followed by a more informal meeting time to permit direct contacts and informal discussions with the invited speakers. This format will highlight the diversity of model organisms (from bacteria to human), technical approaches, layers of integrations (from single molecules to human behavior) that characterize the current trends in science. Examination procedure consists of a written report on 1-2 recent papers related to one of the lectures. Keywords Molecular and cellular biology, neuroscience, system biolog."}
{"courseId": "MATH-640", "name": "Introductory course about Spatial Statistics", "description": "Statistics for spatially referenced data are becoming increasingly important as they are nowadays collected in large quantities and at low cost in various areas of science, economics, health and technology. This requires specific probabilistic models and corresponding statistical methods. Content This course aims at giving basic elements for the mathematical modeling of regionalized phenom- ena by probabilistic methods. It also provides a first introduction to geostatistics. The course will be based on spatial stochastic model prototypes like Gaussian random functions and spatial Poisson processes. It will mainly insist on the Gaussian random function model and will cover spatial regression techniques (so-called kriging methods) and simulation algorithms (either non-conditional or with constraints). The course will be divided into 10 chapters. Each session will start with a lecture followed by exercises and applications involving the public domain software R. \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Elementary notions of probability and statistics. \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-216", "name": "Mathematical methods for physicists", "description": "This course complements the Analysis and Linear Algebra courses in providing further mathematical background required for 3rd year physics courses, in particular electrodynamics and quantum mechanics. Content Introduction to Hilbert spaces. Solving linear 2nd order Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs): Frobenius method, boundary value problems, Sturm-Liouville problems. Fourier analysis: Fourier Series and Fourier Transforms. Special functions. Methods for solving Partial Differential Equations (PDEs). Learning Prerequisites Required courses Analyse I, II and III. Linear algebra I and II Physics I, II, and III. Recommended courses Computational Physics I. Important concepts to start the course Analysis: basic theory of ODEs, vector calculus. Linear algebra: Vector spaces, inner product spaces, linear operators, eigenvalue problems, matrix diagonalisation. Complex algebra. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Apply the methods presented in the course for solving physical equations. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture and exercises in the classroom Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-527", "name": "Selected topics in mechanics of solids and structures", "description": "The class covers the fundamentals of wave dynamics and fracture mechanics. The aim is to deepen their knowledge in advanced topis in mechanics of solids and structures and discuss current research topics. Case studies on catastrophic failure will be presented and discussed in class. Content Wave dynamics Introduction to mechanics of rupture Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Statics (for GC), Continuum Solid Mechanics (for GC), Structural Mechanics I Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: To reinforce the general culture in mechanics of solids and structures of the future engineer by highlighting fundamentals.To study some advanced topics in recent or fondamental fields of structural and continuum mechanics.To understand and model the behaviour of materials under extreme loading conditions. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, in depth exercices, case studies"}
{"courseId": "MATH-470", "name": "Martingales in financial mathematics", "description": "The aim of the course is to apply the theory of martingales in the context of mathematical finance. The course provides a detailed study of the mathematical ideas that are used in modern financial mathematics. Moreover, the concepts of complete and incomplete markets are discussed. Content Discrete time models and the Fundamental Theorem of Asset Pricing \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 - Fundamental results \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 - Binomial- and trinomial model \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 - The Snell envelope, optimal stopping, and American options\u00a0 Geometric Brownian motion and the Black-Scholes model \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 - Option pricing and hedging \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 - Exotic options On the theory of (no-)arbitrage in continuous time Selected topics on\u00a0 \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 - Local- and stochastic volatility models \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 - Stochastic interest rates \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 - L\u00e9vy driven models \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 - New trends\u00a0in financial mathematics \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 Keywords martingales, financial mathematics, theory of (no-)arbitrage Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Stochastic calculation Important concepts to start the course Stochastic calculation \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explore in detail the use of martingales in financial mathematics.Prove a criteria for absence of arbitrage in a model based on a finite probability space and state an analogous general result.Prove a criteria for completeness of a market modeled based on a finite probability space and state an analogous general result.Explain the difference and the resulting consequences between claims and American options.Derive prices for some financial derivatives based on several different models.Derive different hedging strategies for some financial derivatives based on several different models.Analyze the choice of asset price models according to different criteria.Optimize chosen asset price models. Assessment methods Exam oral Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants No Forum No Others Office hours: Friday, 13:00-14:00"}
{"courseId": "EE-727", "name": "Computational Social Media", "description": "The course integrates concepts from media studies, machine learning, multimedia and network science to characterize social practices and analyze content in sites like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. Students will learn computational methods to infer individual and networked phenomena in social media. Content The course will present a human-centered view of computational social media. It uses a multidisciplinary approach and integrates concepts from media studies, multimedia information systems, machine learning, and network science to present the socio-technical fundamentals needed to understand the motivations, characterize the behavior, and analyze the content and relations of social media users and communities in sites like Twitter, Facebook, Flickr, YouTube, and Foursquare. Students will become familiar with computational approaches for classification, discovery, and prediction of individual and networked phenomena in social media. The content is organized around trends in social media, introducing computational models of general applicability. 1. Introduction. Basic theories about social media usage and participation. A brief history of social media. Networked individualism. 2. Friending. A human-centered review of Facebook research. Users, communities, and networks. The real-name web. 3. Tweeting. From random chatter to worldwide pulse. Followers, hashtags, topics, events, and network effects. Analyzing phenomena on Twitter. 4. Shooting. Photo sharing and tagging in Flickr, Pinterest, and Instagram. Media, user and community analysis enabled by photo sharing. 5. Watching. YouTube as a media phenomenon. Video blogging. Multimedia techniques (audio,video,text) to analyze social video. 6. Moving. Location-based social networks and smartphone data. Individual and network phenomena revealed by mobility data. Urban computing. 7. Crowdsourcing. Models to analyze crowdsourced tasks and workers. Uses of crowdsourcing in social media research. Crowdsourcing and social participation. 8. Protecting. Privacy and social media. Approaches for privacy preservation in social media. Limitations of existing methods. Ephemeral social media 9. Burning out. Effects of social media usage on cognition, attention, and social norms. Keywords Social Media, Social Networks, Multimedia, Machine Learning. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Beginning PhD level in Electrical Engineering or Computer Science. Students from other disciplines (e.g. geography and sociology) can talk to the instructor during the first lecture of the course."}
{"courseId": "EE-420", "name": "Analog circuits design I", "description": "The student will be able to design analog integrated circuits (and the analog parts of VLSI circuits). He will master the device structures and the basic circuits used in bipolar and MOS technologies, as well as the basic principles underlying their correct layout. Content Fundamental principlesSignal representation, insensibility to process and to physical parameters, principle of similarity and rules for optimum matching.\u00a0Analog circuitsStudies of different topologies, design methodologies and tradeoffs, specific limitation, implementation and design examples of the following circuits: Amplifiers Operational transconductance amplifier (OTA). Operational amplifier (Op Amp). Keywords Mos model, analog design, amplifiers design,\u00a0stability creteria, low-power design Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Devices and analog basic structures Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Establish the inversion level of MOS deviceDeduce the impact of the inversion level of device on IC designDesign of basic MOS amplifiersJustify the topology choice of an OTAsDesign each transitors of an amplifier according to the electronics constraints Transversal skills Manage priorities. Teaching methods Ex cathedra with exercices Assessment methods Continuous control Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Bibliography Duplicated lecture notes, slide copies, recent technical articles \u00a0"}
{"courseId": "MATH-351", "name": "Advanced numerical analysis", "description": "The student will learn state-of-the-art algorithms for solving ordinary differential equations, nonlinear systems, and optimization problems. Moreover, the analysis of these algorithms and their efficient implementation will be discussed in some detail. Content Numerical Solution of Ordinary Differential Equations Runge-Kutta methods. Stability concepts. Multistep methods. Step size control. Nonlinear systems of equations Solution of large-scale linear and nonlinear systems. Numerical Optimization Newton, BFGS and conjugate gradient methods. Constrained optimization problems. Quadratic programming. Keywords Ordinary differential equations, adaptive methods, nonlinear solvers, optimization, large-scale problems. \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Some background in numerical analysis and proficiency in programming - Matlab recommended Important concepts to start the course Numerical methods for approximation, differentiation and integration of functions. Basic knowledge of ordinary differential equations and their solutions. Basic knowledge of numerical techniques for solving systems of linear equations. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze methodsChoose an appropriate methodProve basis properties of methodsDerive new methodsConduct computational experimentsImplement computational methods Teaching methods Lecture style with computational experiments in class to illustrate analysis. Expected student activities Students are expected to attend lectures and participate actively in class and exercises. Exercises will include both theoretical work and implementation and test of a variety of methods. Assessment methods Written examination"}
{"courseId": "ME-445", "name": "Aerodynamics", "description": "This course will provide the fluid dynamic background to understand how air flows around two- and three-dimensional wings and bodies and to understand the aerodynamics forces and moments acting on the objects as a result of the air flow. Content INTRODUCTION:- Basic concepts- Definitions- Fundamental equationsSTEADY INCOMPRESSIBLE FLOW PAST WINGS AND BODIES- Potential flow- Infinite wing theory- Finite wing theory UNSTEADY AERODYNAMICS - Flapping wing flight - Rotary wing air vehicles and wind turbines APPLIED AERODYNAMICS- Flow control- Wing design Keywords airfoil, lift, drag, unsteady aerodynamics, flow separation, flow control Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses \u00a0 Incompressible fluid mechanics Fluid flow Hydrodynamics \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the physical behaviour of a flow in scientific terms, AH1Link flow behaviour with non-dimensional parameters (e.g. Reynolds and Mach numbers), AH2Describe the physical differences between laminar and turbulent flows, AH4Describe in detail the physical phenomena associated with the interaction of a flow with a solid wall (as a function of its characteristics, e.g. roughness), AH5Describe flow in simple geometries, such as over a flat plate, in a tube, or around a sphere or airfoil, AH11Work out / Determine the flight characteristics from a wing shape and chose a wing shape to provide the desired flight characteristics, AH12Describe 3D effects resulting, for example, from a finite wing span or behind a blunt body, AH13Solve analytically or numerically the potential flow around an airfoil, AH25 Teaching methods Lectures, written exercises Assessment methods Written examination Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "CH-422", "name": "Catalyst design for synthesis", "description": "This advanced course on homogeneous catalysis explain the important role of the field in modern chemistry and provide a detailed understanding of how these catalysts work at a mechanistic level and give examples of important applications (carbon dioxid hydrogenation, hydrogen storage and delivery). Content \u00a0 Organometallic chemistry: revision of basic ideas including structure and bonding and the implications this has on reactivity of an organic ligand coordinated to a metal centre. A description of the reactions involved in homogeneous catalysis, with an emphasis on the essential features required to predict which type of reactions can take place. Carbon dioxide hydrogenation, hydrogen storage and delivery Kinetics and mechanisms in formic acid dehydrogenation Solvent and pH in homogeneous catalysis General classification of different types of catalysts and their industrial relevance/importance with an emphasis on the mechanistics the following types of reactions will be studied: hydrogenation, carbon dioxide hydrogenation, carbonylation, hydroformylation, isomerisation\u00a0. Ligand design, i.e. modification of ligands in order to produce more efficient and selective catalysts, will be discussed. Enantioselective ligands that give optically pure products will also be considered. Methods to immobilise homogeneous catalysts in alternative solvents (biphasic catalysis) will be explored with an emphasis on the strategies available and how to modify the catalyst to operate under the different conditions. Methods to study homogeneous catalysts in situ. \u00a0 Keywords homogeneous catalyst, hydrogenation, carbon dioxide hydrogenation, hydrogen storage, carbonylation, hydroformylation, isomerisation, Learning Prerequisites Required courses inorganic chemisrty organic chemistry organometallic chemistry kinetics catalysis \u00a0 Recommended courses Inorganic chemistry, organic chemistry, organometallic chemistry, catalysis Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Classify catalysts and different catalysed reactionsExplore the molecular mechanisms of catalytic processesAssess / Evaluate the ways that catalysts can be improvedDesign superior catalysts (in theory) Teaching methods Lecture course Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-106(en)", "name": "General physics (English) II", "description": "Give the student the basic notions that will allow him or her to have a better understanding of physical phenomena, such as the mechanic of point masses. Acquire the capacity to analyse quantitatively the consequences of these effects with appropriate theoretical tools. Content The following subjects will be approached, in an order which will be chosen by the teacher: - Thermodynamic systems, state variable, function of state, historical perspective ' - First principle - Second principle - Thermodynamic cycles - Equation of the diffusion, transfer of heat, Fourier's law, diffusion (one dimension) - Perfect gas, kinetic theory of gases - Statistics: Boltzmann\u00a0formula \u00a0 - Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution, principle of equipartition, calculation of specific heat - Van der Waals's gas and phase transitions \u00a0 Supplementary materials (depending on the sections) The course can also treat the following subjects: - Supplements in mechanics (if they have not been studied in the first semester or will be in physics 2nd year), such as special relativity or lagrangian mechanics - Thermodynamic potentials (fonctions) - Chemical potential and chemical reactions - Thermodynamics of out of equilibrium\u00a0processes\u00a0(Onsager, Eckart, Prigogine, ...), modeling of\u00a0transport\u00a0phenomena Keywords Rigid body, relativity, energy, entropy Learning Prerequisites Required courses General Physics I Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Formulate a physical modelDevelop a know-how to solve a problemStructure models in terms of differentials equationsApply simpliflying assumptions to describe an experienceEstimate orders of magnitudeDistinguish the theoretical models describing Natural phenomenaContextualise theoretical models in every day life Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Ex cathedra and exercises in class Assessment methods written exam Resources Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Physics / HallidayPhysics for scientists and engineers / Giancoli"}
{"courseId": "CH-707", "name": "Frontiers in Chemical Synthesis. Towards Sustainable Chemistry", "description": "This training will empowered the student with all the tools of modern chemistry, which will be highly useful for his potential career as a process or medicinal chemist in industry. Content Following topics will be at the focus of the lecture:\u00a0 The concepts of atom and step economy in synthesis Recent progresses in metal-catalyzed SP, SP2 and Sp3 C-C and C-X couplings The activation and direct functionalization of feedstocks compounds via C-H and C-C Activation The development of organocatalysis: towards metal-free catalysis Direct functionalization of olefins, including hydroamination, hydrogenation, hydrosilylation, hydroformylation and other C-C bond forming reactions The potential of radical chemistry for C-C and C-X bond formation Metal-Catalyzed Carbocyclization: From Ru and Rh-mediated cycloadditions to Pt and Au chemistry: the relative effect in organic chemistry. One-pot multi-steps reactions: avoiding time and ressource-consuming isolation procedures \"New\" technologies in the organic chemistry laboratory: microwave, ultrason, solid-phase synthesis, organic chemistry in water, parallel synthesis and reactions in flow reactors.\u00a0(General Concept of the Lecture Series: A thorough knowledge and understanding of chemical transformations is essential for the synthetic chemist. In this course series, the student will become familiar with the recent methodological developments in organic chemistry. With the tools of modern chemistry, they will be able to design new efficient, economical and environmentally friendly reactions and synthesis. Every student will be assigned a specific topic of research. He will be expected to make a thorough literature research on his subject, including pioneering works, state of the art and most recent developments. He will present his results to the class and the instructor and organize a short exercise session on the topic for the class. Towards Sustainable Chemistry: The development of efficient, atom and step economical processes is essential forthe chemistry of the future. \u00a0 \u00a0 \u00a0 Note Next session Spring 2017 (spread dates) oral exam based on the exercise sessions following the talk\u00a0Block course:Contact hours: 2 hours of introductory lecture in the first week.Towards the end of semester: 2 days with two blocks of 4 hours, including presentations, discussions and exercises sessions. Inbetween: individual preparation (around 36 h total work) Keywords Organometallic Chemistry, Organic Chemistry, Catalysis, Synthesis Efficiency, Sustainable Chemistry"}
{"courseId": "ENG-622", "name": "Science and Engineering Teaching and Learning", "description": "This course introduces contemporary research findings in the teaching and learning of science and technology subjects in higher education, develops participants' teaching skills, and provides a framework for on-going development of their skills through evaluation of their own teaching practices. Content There have now been multiple reviews of the implication of learning sciences research for teaching. While it is impossible to distil such a rich body of work into a few catchphrases, certain key features do emerge: 1. Learning is an effortful process, which requires the student to process information or to practice using skills. The goal of teaching therefore, is to facilitate student work. This implies trying to avoid learning situations where students are mentally passive (e.g. the traditional frontal lecture). 2. Students and pupils learn best when goals are clear, and when they get feedback on how well they are meeting those goals and how they can improve. In higher education the use of techniques like student response systems ('clickers'), on-line quizzes, and mid-term tests, can maximize ongoing feedback to students. Peer evaluation and grading rubrics can be used to help to clarify learning goals. 3. People learn best in emotionally secure environments in which they can try, make mistakes, and get feedback without being made to feel inadequate or ridiculed. There is also evidence that, in higher education, in classes experienced as emotionally safe by teachers, their teaching approaches become more student-centered and less focused on simply `transmission of information'.\u00a0 4. Students learn best when they get to revise material over time. In particular, periodic low-stakes testing, and practiced recall have been found to have strong positive impacts on learning. In university contexts, where courses typically continue to introduce new material each week, mid-term tests and self-assessment quizzes can play an important role in ensuring long-term learning. 5. Students who are taught how to independently plan, monitor, de-bug and review their own learning, on average, outperform students who are not educated in such metacognitive regulation strategies. Students can be helped to develop this independence through the provision of clear learning goals, self-assessment activities, opportunities to review their own learning and chances to discuss their learning strategies with other students. While these issues apply across teaching and learning of all disciplines, specific isues arise in teaching science and engineering.\u00a0 The epistemologies of natural science disciplines are distinct from those in humanities and social sciences and these require teaching methods appropriate to these goals (such as, for example, inquiry-based methods, mathematical modelling of physical phenomena etc.).\u00a0 Engineering disciplines also have specific features such as the need to transfer analytical skills learned in classrooms into practice situations, and the key role of enginering design.\u00a0 Teaching science and engineering, therefore, requires pedagogies which are distinctive as well as evidence-informed. The goals of this course are: (a)\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 To introduce novice teachers in higher education (doctoral teaching asistants) to these contemporary research-informed approaches to teaching (b)\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 To provide opportunities for novice teachers to practice these skills (c)\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 To provide a framework within which novice teachers can adopt research-informed strategies in practice, and can evaluate the impact of such strategies as part of a process of continual self-development. The course is organised in four parts: (a) lectures on research on teaching and learning in higher education (8 hours of class), (b) reading of research evidence on teaching and learning (9 hours of independent student work) (c) skills workshops in which participants can practice and get feedback (8 hours in class) and (d) the implementation of research-informed teaching approaches in a course on which the participant works, and the evaluation of this intervention (25 hours independent work). This course focuses on the teaching and learning of science and engineering in higher education and does not lead to a recognized teaching qualification for primary or post-primary schools. \u00a0 LEARNING OUTCOMES By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Evaluate up-to-date developments in learning sciences related to teaching and learning of science and engineering in higher education; Demonstrate skills in presenting for learning, in tutoring and in giving students feedback; Apply this knowledge to their own teaching practice through the design of a teaching input Improve their own practice through systematically evaluating their own teaching input Timetable Tuesday 20th September: 9.15 ' 13h00 (Lectures ' group of 25) Tuesday 27th September: 9h15 -13h00 (Workshops ' groups of 8, 8 and 9) Tuesday 4th October: 9h15 ' 13h00 (Lectures' group of 25) Tuesday 11th October: 9h15 ' 13h00 (Workshops' groups of 8, 8 and 9) Tuesday 8th October: 9h15 ' 11h00 (Written Exam ' needs space for 50) & 11h00 ' 13h00 (Meeting with CAPE project supervisor) Submission of project report: 13th January 2017 Note Participants must be a teacher/tutor/ teaching assistant on an EPFL course at the time of undertaking this course Registration via IS-Academia Portal (maximum attendees: 24) Keywords Teaching and Learning Science and EngineeringResearch and Development of Teaching Practices Assessment methods The course is assessed through a written exam covering parts (a) and (b) and a project report integrating learing from parts (a) to (d)."}
{"courseId": "MGT-402", "name": "B2B - high-tech marketing", "description": "Business as usual methods can apply to mature markets, even if less and less. But a kind of Marketing integrating innovation and entrepreneurial values is more and more useful and necessary to act in a context of turbulence or disruption. This is a highly impacting trend for B2B marketing. Content The course\u00a0is combining advanced academic concepts and\u00a0very practical advice for future managers. Topics include: Dynamics of markets. Disruptive and incremental innovations. Exploration vs Exploitation Specificities of B2B markets. New ways for bilding a Value Proposition Traps to avoid. Projects. \u00a0 Keywords High-Tech - B2B - Marketing - Sales - Innovation - Strategy Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Formulate a regular marketing plan or a marketing plan based on no pre-defined marketAssess / Evaluate an RPP evaluationDevelop the value equation of an offering Transversal skills Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals. Teaching methods Interactive pedagogy based on Q&A periods around cases\u00a0and concepts\u00a0. Advanced readings of course materials and / or of a weekly case study. Learning through theory and\u00a0real-life-examples,\u00a0class discussion around case studies with identification of key points.A marketing project to be submitted at the end of the course. And several student presentations about iconic High-Tech\u00a0entrepreneurs. Expected student activities Presentations in class and homework. Assessment methods 50% continuous assessment combining: 20% Individual contribution in class / 50% Case analysis (hard copy oral presentation -\u00a0at the beginning of each course) / 30% Marketing project (groupwork) 50% final written exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Bibliography Christensen Clayton (1997) The Innovator's Dilemma, Harvard Business School Press: Boston. \u00a0 Clymer and Asaba, S. (2008).\u00a0 A new approach for understanding dominant design: The Case of ink-jet printer. In Journal of Engineering Technology Management, 25: 137-156. \u00a0 Nelson, R. and Winter, S. (1982) \u00a0An evolutionary theory of economic change. Harvard University Press: Cambridge, MA. \u00a0 Taleb, N. (2012) Anti Fragile. Allen Lane: U.K. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que The Innovator's Dilemma / ChristensenAn evolutionary theory of economic change / NelsonAntifragile : Things That Gain from Disorder / TalebA new approach for understanding dominant design / Clymer and Asaba Notes/Handbook Handbook : Most slides available on the platform. Additional slides for teaching presentation."}
{"courseId": "EE-206", "name": "Measuring systems", "description": "Measuring physical quantities lies at the heart of how engineers and scientists interact with the world around us. This course introduces most common approaches to measuring and reporting quantities such as temperature, humidity, force, acceleration, strain etc. using modern types of sensors. Content Sensors and conditioning ciruits. Introduction to transducers, sensors and actuators. Active and passive sensors and their conditioning. Modeling a measuring system. Measurands and functional components of a measuring system, interfering and modifying inputs, static and dynamic characteristics, identification of transfer function, loading effects. Noise estimation and reduction. Extrinsic noise, capacitive coupling, magnetic coupling, common mode voltage. Intrinsic noise and noise specifications. Noise reduction, connecting, asymmetric and differential amplifiers, instrumentation amplifiers. Modulation-demodulation, lock-in amplifier. Analysis of Measurement results. Error attributes, rules of errors composition. Sources and measuring devices. Data presentation. Analog and digital multlimeters specifications. Comparing measured data. Statistical measuring parameters and their estimation. Random variable and realization, population and sampling. Main distribution, confidence interval, estimation of systematic and random errors by hypothesis tests. Test; retest and reliability of measurement. Data acquisition. General specification. Sampling, coding, quantication, data conversion (D/A and A/D), multiplexing. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Electrotechnics I and II Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the generic measurement chainChoose the appropriate sensor for a given measurementWork out / Determine sources of noise in the measurement setupInterpret measurement resultsCompare measurement resultsspecification sheets for sensors Teaching methods Ex cathedra, with exercices Expected student activities Attending lectures Attending exercises Completing exercises at home Assessment methods Written exam at end of the semester. One test during the semester resulting in maximal bonus of 1 for the final grade. Resources Bibliography Course notes and slides Acquisition de donn\u00e9es : du capteur \u00e0 l'ordinateur / Georges Asch ... [et al.]\". Year:2003. ISBN:2-10-006310-3 Syst\u00e8mes de mesure / par Pierre-Andr\u00e9 Paratte et Philippe Robert\". Year:1996. ISBN:2-88074-321-4 \u00a0 Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Syst\u00e8mes de mesure / ParatteAjouter au Panier Acquisition de donn\u00e9es : du capteur \u00e0 l'ordinateur / Asch Moodle Link http://moodle.epfl.ch/course/view.php?id=236"}
{"courseId": "MATH-625(1)", "name": "Working Group in Algebraic Groups, I", "description": "The topics addressed in this course are the structure theory of reductive algebraic groups, their associated Lie algebras, the related finite groups of Lie type, and the representation theory of all of these objects. Content We start with the basic structure theory of reductive algebraic groups and proceed to study: their representations, the subgroup structure, conjugacy classes, structural results on their Lie algebras, the related finite groups of Lie type, generation problems. the working group is based on advanced textbooks and journal articles. Keywords semisimple, reductive, algebraic groups, Lie algebras"}
{"courseId": "MGT-454", "name": "Principles of microeconomics", "description": "The course allows students to get familiarized with the basic tools and concepts of modern microeconomic analysis. Based on graphical reasoning and analytical calculus, it constantly links to real economic issues. Content Introduction Consumer theory - Utility theory - Consumer optimum - Demand function - Applications Production theory - Short term/long term production - Cost functions - Equilibrium of firm under perfect competition - supply function State interventions on the markets - Price fixation - Supply and demand orientation - Trade politics Imperfect competition - Monopoly - Monopsony - Bilateral monopoly - Monopolistic competition - Oligopoly - Cartel Game theory - Introduction - Game theory and rationality - Nash equilibrium - Repeated games - Games with incomplete information Public goods - Market failures - Different types of goods - Externalities - Natural monopoly \u00a0 Keywords Microeconomics, consumers, producers, state interventions, imperfect competition, game theory, public goods. Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course No prior knowledge of economics is required for this course but a sound knowledge of calculus is recommended. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Describe the nature of economics in dealing with the issue of scarcity.Understand consumer theory and its applications.Study the economic process of production, i.e., the conversion of inputs into outputs, and the differences in terms of time horizon.Understand and discuss the concept of perfect competition.Understand and discuss state interventions on the markets and its consequences.Understand and define imperfect competition and its implications.Introduce students to game theory and its use in economics.Understand and define the economic concept of public goods and externalities, and its applications.Use economic analysis to assess controversial issues and policies. Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Take responsibility for environmental impacts of her/ his actions and decisions. Teaching methods Lectures and exercises: Theory presented and studied during classes will be extensively illustrated and trained with exercises, generally referring to real economic problems. Expected student activities Exercises will be available online approximately one week before corrections. Estimated workload for exercises: one to two hours per week. To obtain full value this class is offering, it is imperative that you come to class prepared. Indeed, exercises will be discussed and corrected every week in detail during classes. Moreover, as part of the exam will be based on the exercises, their regular preparation and understanding are crucial. Assessment methods 40% written midterm exam (closed book) will take place in week 8 of the course (07.11.16 - 11.11.16), based on the theory and exercises seen during the course. 60% written final exam (closed book), based on the theory and exercises seen during the semester, will take place during the exam session at the end of the semester. The exam will be composed of multiple choice questions and open questions. Multiple choice questions will examine the theory presented during the semester. The open questions will be based on the exercises that are presented, discussed and corrected weekly in class. Hence, regular preparation and training through the exercises are essential for the exam. Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Others Contact by e-mail."}
{"courseId": "COM-511", "name": "Software-defined radio: A hands-on course", "description": "The idea is to complement the theoretical knowledge learned in Principles of Digital Communications (and perhaps in Advanced Digital Communications), with hands-on exercises based on Matlab. Content 1. Software radio : key concepts.2. Matlab implementation of the signal processing chain to the level of detail in Principles of Digital Communications.3. Decoding of a GPS signal and positioning.4. Modern advanced techniques such as CDMA, OFDM, LDPC codes, equalization, and iterative decoding methods. Keywords Software, communication Learning Prerequisites Required courses Principles of Digital Communications or equivalent. Recommended courses Advanced digital communications. Important concepts to start the course Matlab Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Implement in Matlab various parts of a \"physical-layer\" digital communication system. Teaching methods Ex cathedra and exercises (Matlab) Expected student activities Matlab programming Assessment methods Continuous control (TP and written test)"}
{"courseId": "HUM-316", "name": "Cognitive psychology B", "description": "Are our cognitive functions (e.g. perception, language) due to nature or nurture? While extreme positions are today less prevalent, the debate is ongoing. We will discuss empirical findings supporting either position, inviting students to critically assess and integrate various positions. Content This course will extend (but not depend) on a course in year BA3, in which basic knowledge on cognitive psychology was introduced (HUM-213). We will introduce (or remind) students of the basic fields in cognitive psychology and how the nature (biological innateness) vs nurture (social experience) debate has evolved in theoretical viewpoints\u00a0throughout history. We suggest to treat relevant cognitive domains such as intelligence, learning and memory, language, emotion, temperament.\u00a0We will present concepts and empirical, mostly experimental, studies that support either perspective in order to compare these viewpoints, discuss, integrate, and synthesize conflicting findings. Keywords cognition, nature, nurture, development, methods, history, theory,\u00a0intelligence, learning, memory, language, emotion, temperament Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses HUM - 213: Psychologie cognitive A, but not necessary Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Search for relevant literatureDescribe previous research and their weaknesses and strengthsDiscuss research articles within a larger contextDemonstrate the abilitiy to integrate different, or even opposing viewpointsFormulate your reasoning in oral and written formJustify a constructive synthesis of the treated literature Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Summarize an article or a technical report.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingMake an oral presentation. Teaching methods Course of 60-80 minutes Followed by a discussion period in which the lecturers are present to support students - in their preparation of the oral presentation - in their preparation of the course summary - in their literature search Expected student activities -Present and discuss your analysis of the contradicting literature -Write 3 summaries (1 page each) of 3 presentations given by your peers. -Contribute constructively to the disussion and outcome of the other presenters. Assessment methods - Evaluation of the oral presentation - Evaluation of the three summaries. Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Others Students can ask questions and obtain further information before and after lecture times. In case of particular questions, additional office time can be arranged."}
{"courseId": "MSE-443(a)", "name": "Modelling problem solving, computing and visualisation I", "description": "The course will cover programming, numerical simulation, and visualization methods using Mathematica software. Students will be able to apply these skills to their currrent coursework, and prepared for the companion course (MSE 443(b)) which covers advanced materials science modeling. Content Programming constructs in Mathematica Functional Programming Pattern Matching Visualization and Graphics Programming Exact and Numerical Simulations of partial differentail equations Image processing Keywords programming, visualization, simulations, materials science\u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Calculus and Linear Algebra Basic materials science concepts Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Compute solutions to materials science problemsVisualize numerical results and material structuresElaborate and explain results using visual mediaIntegrate several programming techniquesManipulate data for fitting and visualization Transversal skills Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinkingTake feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner. Teaching methods Lectures with in-class exercises Expected student activities Students will be given 3 individual projects, \u00a0and will prepare a report on a final project. Assessment methods Grades will be computed for each project. Each will be weighted 25% Supervision Office hours Yes Resources Bibliography Mathematica Documentation Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Programming with mathematica:an introduction / Wellin"}
{"courseId": "MGT-631", "name": "Optimization Methods and Models", "description": "This course introduces the theory and application of modern optimization from an engineering perspective. Content The following topics will tentatively be covered in the course: Introduction Convex Sets Convex Functions Convex Optimization Problems\u00a0 Separation Theorems Duality Optimality Conditions Optimization in Statistics & Machine Learning\u00a0 Convexifying Nonconvex Problems\u00a0 Stochastic Programming Robust Optimization Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Students are assumed to have good knowledge of basic linear algebra and analysis. Some familiarity with linear programming or other optimization paradigms is useful but not necessary. \u00a0 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Formalize decision problems in management science and engineering as mathematical optimization modelsSolve the resulting models with commonly used optimization software and to interpret the resultsAssess / Evaluate the computational complexity of different classes of optimization problems and use modeling techniques to make specific optimization problems more tractableModel and solve decision problems affected by uncertainty Teaching methods Classical formal teaching interlaced with practical exercices. Assessment methods Participation in class Final exam"}
{"courseId": "EE-606", "name": "Nanocomputing: Devices, Circuits and Architectures", "description": "This course aims at giving the student a detailed overview of the computation circuits and systems for computations that are expected to become the main actor in the forthcoming scenario, going beyond the ultra-scaled CMOS technologies and focusing the attention on the emerging technologies. Content The student will have a good overview of the novel solutions offered by the nanotechnologies. He will have an exaustive coverage starting from the technology, passing to the devices up to the architectures. One of the training goals of the course is to give to the student a scenario form which to choose a specific topic of particular interest, that will be studiedand developed for the preparation of the final Project Report. 1. State of the art: nanocomputing in ULTRA scaled CMOS: CMOS scaling trends at device levels: scaling, leakage, double-gate transistors, FinFET, etc. Circuit and architectural techniques: dark silicon, dynamic voltage scaling, subthreshold computation, etc. 2. Field coupled nanocomputing (FCN): a new principle: computing through field coupling and not through transport devices: quantum dot cellular automata (QCA), nano magnetic logic (NML), molecular QCA, silicon basedQCA; discussions on technology, behavior, models, energyconsumption, speed, area interconnections: magnetic domain walls, spin waves, molecular wires designing a FCN circuit: a new design paradigm toward intrinsic pipelining circuits and architectures based on FCN structures: syncrhonous, asynchronous, null-convention logic; howto solve feedback problems; cut set retiming; solutions based on systolic arrays and interleaving 3. Nanoarray nanocomputing based on nanowires: devices: Gate-All-Around transistors, Ambipolar transistors (silicon based, zinc-oxide, carbon nanotubes, ...) circuits: nano-PLA, NanoASIC, reconfigurable nanoFPGA architectures: sea of nanoarrays for massive computation and \"embarassingly parallel\" elaboration 4. Logic in memory: Devices: resistive memories, memristors, nanomagnets and magnetic memories Circuits: logic embedded in memory, communications and protocols Architectures: caches to the limit, use hic what you need nunc, search nearby what you need later 5. Alternative nanocomputing devices and architectures: Molecular computing, Biological computing, Spintronic computing, Cellular automata, Quantum computing Keywords Nanocomputing; Beyond CMOS; Quantum Cellular Automata (QCA); Quantum Computing."}
{"courseId": "ME-446", "name": "Two-phase flows and heat transfer", "description": "This course covers the theoretical and practical analysis of two-phase flow and applications. Fundamental two-phase heat transfer in the form of condensation and boiling are studied in detail. Advanced topics such as microchannel two-phase flow, microfinned tubes and oil effects are also handled. Content 1. Introduction to two-phase flow patterns (annular, mist, bubbly,stratified, etc).2. Two-phase flow pattern maps and transition theory.3. Homogeneous and heterogeneous flow models.4. Film condensation (Nusselt equation, multitube models,condensation on enhanced fin geometries).5. Convective condensation (flow pattern effects, various models andmethods for plain and internally enhanced channels).6. Fundamentals of pool boiling (nucleation, bubble dynamics,nucleate boiling, peak heat flux models, film boiling).7. Convective boiling (heat transfer models and design methods forevaporation inside tubes and outside tube bundles).8. Combined heat and mass transfer in phase change processes(condensation in presence of non-condensable gas and evaporation of mixtures. Keywords Two-phase heat transfer, two-phase flow, condensation, convection, evaporation Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Heat and mass transfer (ME-341) Important concepts to start the course Basic understanding of: the physics of heat conduction and fluid flow thermodynamics of pure fluids mass, momentum, and energy conservation on both differential and finite control volume basis Familiarity with engineering conventions for representing heat transfer, particularly in pipes, such as heat transfer coefficient, friction factor, Reynolds number, Nusselt number, etc. Basic skills in MATLAB or a computer langauge of your choice. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Model fluid flows in energy conversion systems, compute pressure drops and heat losses and fluid-structure interactions, E10Explain and apply the concepts of heat and mass transfer, E3Design and calculate heat exchangers, E15 Transversal skills Make an oral presentation.Negotiate effectively within the group.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles. Teaching methods The course is organized with lectures plus student projects in groups. Assessment methods Oral presentation of group project Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "MSE-300", "name": "Theory of materials : from structures to properties", "description": "Macroscopic properties of solids are addressed using symmetry arguments, tensors, thermodynamics, and simple phenomenological models. Content 1. The tools of phenomenological descriptions: symmetry, tensors, and thermodynamics2. Description of static equilibrium properties:dielectric response,elasticity,piezoelectricity, pyroelectricity and thermal dilatation3. Description of dynamic equilibrium properties and transport properties: dielectric relaxation, sound propagation, electrical conductivity, heart conductivity, and thermoelectric phenomena4. Light propagation in anisotropic materials 5. Landau theory of structural phase transitions \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses General physics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Apply the symmetry arguments,tensors and thermodynamics for a description of the physical properties of materials. Teaching methods Ex cathedra and exercises Assessment methods Midterm test oral exam during the exam session Resources Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Physical properties of crystals / NyeIntroduction to solid state physics / Kittel"}
{"courseId": "MGT-641(a)", "name": "Technology and Public Policy - (a) Science, technology and society", "description": "The course offers a broad introduction to science, technology and society from a historical and epistemological perspective, sensitizing the students to the relationships between technology and society in a broad sense (economics, politics, culture). Content Science, Technology and Society -- in short STS -- studies the interrelations between these three elements. In particular, STS looks at how economic, social, political and cultural conditions shape science and technology and how, in turn, science and technology shape society. STS has evolved over time and this evolution will be reflected in the course: from a purely historical approach in the early 1960s showing how technology emerged in particular societal contexts, STS focused as of the second half of the 1960s on philosophical and epistomological questions (e.g., scientific revolutions as taking place in a societal context). In the context of the social movements of the late 1960s, STS opened up to other disciplines such as sociology, anthropology and political science. More recently, STS focused more on helping scientists and engineers understand the social and political contexts in which their knowledge and technologies come to be applied. This course offers a broad introduction to the field of STS studies, by placing science and technology within their different historical and societal contexts and this from the perspective of how STS has itself evolved over time. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: ' to be knowledgeable about the various infrastructure policies and regulations, the nature of policies and regulation in these sectors, as well as the dynamics of both the industries and corresponding policies and regulations; capable of executing a corresponding personal analysis Keywords Science, technology, society"}
{"courseId": "CH-704", "name": "Computation of molecular properties", "description": "Introduction to methods for the numerical solution of Schr\u00f6dinger's equation. Application of these techniques to the computation of geometries, vibrational frequencies and electronic transitions. Content Molecular properties - Self-consistent field (SCF) calculations - Basis functions - Basis set superposition error (BSSE) - Electron correlation - Interative natural orbital method (INO) - Geometry - Vibrational frequencies - Electronic transi-tions/excited states - Performance and comparision of computational methods - Solvation Note Next session Spring semester 2018 Keywords ab initio molecular orbital methods, density functional theory"}
{"courseId": "BIO-372", "name": "Microbiology", "description": "This course will provide an introduction to fundamental concepts in microbiology. Special emphasis will be given to the surprising and often counter-intuitive physical world inhabited by microorganisms. Content ' The unexpected physics of being small ' Microbial cell structure, inside and out ' Microscale forces and microbial form ' Transmembrane transport phenomena ' Biomechanics of microbial appendages ' Microbial motility and microscale fluid mechanics ' Microbial taxis - random walks and directed motion ' Global nutrient and redox cycles ' Microbial metabolic symbiosis ' Symmetry breaking in microbial differentiation ' Molecular noise and microbial individuality ' Genetic networks and synthetic microbiology ' Fundamentals of virology Learning Prerequisites Required courses Cycle prop\u00e9deutique (semestres 1 et 2) et cycle bachelor (semestres 3 et 4) en Sciences et Technologies du Vivant Recommended courses Fluid Mechanics for SV, Structural Mechanics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain how microscale forces shape the basic structure of microbial cellsExplain the mechanics of non-Hookean biomaterials in microbial cell functionsExplain how low Reynolds number fluid dynamics affect microbial motilityExplain how low P\u00e9clet number transport phenomena affect microbial taxisExplain the selectivity of material exchanges between microbes and their environmentsExplain the essential roles of microorganisms in global nutrient and redox cyclingExplain the molecular and physiological bases of microbial metabolic symbiosesExplain some of the symmetry-breaking strategies involved in microbial differentiationExplain the role of molecular fluctuations in microbial non-ergodic phenotypic variationExplain the logic of microbial genetic networks in basic engineering termsExplain fundamental concepts in replication and pathogenesis of viruses Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Summarize an article or a technical report.Take responsibility for environmental impacts of her/ his actions and decisions.Respect the rules of the institution in which you are working.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Lectures and group exercises Expected student activities Attendance of lectures, completion of written exercises in small working groups Assessment methods Written exam of 3 hours comprising 14 answers in short-essay format based on 14 questions (2 per week) selected from a list of 28 questions. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum Yes"}
{"courseId": "EE-421", "name": "Analog circuits design II", "description": "The course extends and completes the topics of the \"Analog circuits design I\". The using of computer aided design tools becomes systematic in order to valiate the studied concepts. System level design is added with a complete design project of electronic mixed-mode system. Content Analog comparators. Differential Amplifiers and CMFB. Voltage references : available voltage sources and circuits to extract them.Current references : circuits based on various principles; voltage to current converters. Linear regulators :\u00a0voltage regulators and LDO. Case studies of analog systems: Project to be done in the laboratory Keywords Analog design, stability, LDO, linear regulator, low offset amplifiers. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Analog circuits design I Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design of comparators, differential amplifiers, LDO and low offset low noise amplifiersAnalyze stability of linear regolatorsDesign Using CAD environement of mixed-mode integrated circuits & systems Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives. Teaching methods Ex cathedra, lab exercices and projects Assessment methods Continuous control Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Bibliography Duplicated lecture notes, slide copies, hands-on for lab"}
{"courseId": "ENG-623", "name": "MINTT: Management of Innovation and technology transfer (EDOC)", "description": "mintt's purpose is to provide EPFL PhD students with an accelerated training in invention management, assessment of the potential, intellectual property rights elaboration, license negotiation, start-up option evaluation and experience sharing in the field of innovation. Content Objectives In a nutshell, mintt's purpose is to provide EPFL PhD students with an accelerated training in invention management, assessment of the potential, intellectual property rights elaboration, license negotiation, start-up option evaluation and experience sharing in the field of innovation Content mintt is based on real-world EPFL invention cases and is taught by experienced and active professionals in the field of technology transfer working at the Technology Transfer Office of EPFL (TTO) as well as by experienced invited speakers from industry and startups. See description of modules, below. Format The course starts in early June with two full days of teaching with several teachers. It is then followed by 3 half-day mandatory thematic workshops during the week following the initial teaching. Finally, a personal work is to be conducted in a group of 3 students in the form of an EPFL invention/technology/start-up case study. A written report is due in September and an oral presentation is made on Octobre 3, 2017. Modules & Workshops in June: Module 1 About inventions, inventors and intellectual propertyModule 2 Evaluate the potentialModule 3 LicensingModule 4 Start-upModule 5 Managing Innovation and creatlng valueWorkshop 1 Patents - dealing with a patent examinatlon reportWorkshop 2 Software intellectual property and licensingWorkshop 3 Patents in Life Sciences -------------> Details on https://mintt.epfl.ch/modules \u00a0 Practical case study during the summer in groups of three students. Written report due in September. Oral presentation to the teachers and the class in October. LEARNING OUTCOMES By the end of the course, the student must be able to: From the idea to a product : learn about technology transfer from the perspective of a researcher; have a good general knowledge about intellectual property matters and licensing; be able to recognize major success and failure factors; learn from experiences of others Note Max 27 full participants with case study 3-5 auditors (no case study, no ECTS credit) Selection will be done by the mintt team using the answers to the online registration questionnaire Keywords Technology transfer - intellectual property - patents - licenses innovation - software - startups Learning Prerequisites Required courses none, but clear motivation for the matter Assessment methods Exam form: Project report and oral presentation \u00a0 Practical work: 25 hours Presentation of case studies8 hours"}
{"courseId": "CS-471", "name": "Advanced multiprocessor architecture", "description": "Multiprocessors are now the defacto building blocks for all computer systems. This course will build upon the basic concepts offered in Computer Architecture I to cover the architecture and organization of modern multiprocessors from mobile and embedded platforms to servers, data centers and cloud computing platforms. Content Introduction to multiprocessor systems, parallel programming models including Pthreads, MPI, hardware and software transactional memory, synchronization primitives, memory consistency mdels, cache coherence, on-chip shared cache architectures, on-chip interconnects, multi-chip interconnects, multi-chip bus-based and general-purpose interconnect-based shared-memory systems, clusters.The course will include weekly readings, discussions, and student reviews and reports on publications (besides the text book) of seminal and recent contributions to the field of computer architecture. Student reviews, class discussions, and an independent research project will account for a significant fraction of the grade. Feedback on performance will be given only upon request by a student. There will be no recitation classes. The course will also include an independent and original research project, in which students study, improve, and evaluate multiprocessor innovations using a software simulation infrastructure. There will be a list of project ideas given out, but students can suggest and work on their own ideas with potentials for advancing the state of the art.\u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Computer Architecture I, basic C/C systems programming. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Design and evaluate parallel computer organizationsDevelop parallel programs and benchmarks for parallel systemsDesign the basic components of modern parallel systems including multiple processors, cache hierarchies and networksQuantify performance metrics for parallel systemsInterpret and critique research papersPlan , propose and conduct a research project empiricallyPresent research contributions Teaching methods Lectures, homeworks, and a research project Assessment methods Continuous control :Homework : 30 %, Project 15 %, Midterm test : 20 %, End term test : 35 %"}
{"courseId": "BIOENG-420", "name": "Single cell genomics", "description": "The students are exposed to experimental and analytical approaches specific to single cell biology, with an emphasis on quantitative aspects. Content The course is organized in four parts, each containing alternating lectures and journal clubs presented by the students in a 1:1 ratio (see Teaching methods below for more details). Part 1 (weeks 1-4) will focus on the fundamental and biomedical research values of single cell genomic and transcriptomic analyses. Part 2 (weeks 5-8) will focus on dynamic analysis of gene expression, signaling and cell fate choices in single cells. Part 3 (weeks 9-10) will focus on engineering approaches to single cell analysis. Finally, part 4 (weeks 11-12) will focus on non-genetic heterogeneity in bacteria and its consequences. Week 13 will consist of a half-day symposium featuring external and internal speakers (week 13) and an oral exam (week 14). Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the limitations of bulk analysis that can be overcome by single cell analysisExplain the advantages and limitations of single cell analysis in gathering quantitative dataExplain how single cell analyses can have diagnostic or biomedical valuePropose experimental approaches to investigate phenotypic heterogeneity in a cell populationPropose experimental approaches to investigate temporal fluctuations in gene expressionPropose experimental approaches to investigate cell fate choices and bacterial resistance to drugs at the single cell level Assessment methods Oral eaxam during the semester Supervision Office hours No Assistants No Forum No"}
{"courseId": "CH-700(2)", "name": "Advanced electroanalytical chemistry (II session)", "description": "Experimental work: Preparation and characterization of electrodes by using inkjet printing. Scanning electrochemical microscopy with soft probes for reactivity imaging of electrodes and electrocatalysts. Content The practical work will be focused on the preparation of electrodes and electrocatalysts by using inkjet printing. The requirements for ink formulation and stable droplet jetting will be taught. The printed electrodes will be characterized by using standard electrochemical methods and scanning electrochemical microscopy with soft linear microelectrode arrays for high-throughput analysis. Note Next session: early Spring 2017 (block) Keywords Voltammetry, Electrochemical Sensors, Inkjet Printing, Electrodes, Electrocatalysts Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Fundamental electrochemistry"}
{"courseId": "MATH-453", "name": "Computational linear algebra", "description": "This course provides an overview of state-of-the-art techniques for solving large-scale linear algebra problems, as they typically arise in applications. A central goal of this course is to give the ability to choose a suitable solver for a given application. Content Introduction Sources of large-scale linear algebra problems. Recap of required linear algebra concepts. Eigenvalue problems Krylov subspace methods. Singular value problems. Preconditioned iterative methods. Available software. Linear systems Direct sparse factorizations. Krylov subspace methods and preconditioners. Available software. Advanced topics One or several of the following topics will be discussed: Efficient implementation on modern computer architectures. Matrix functions. Low-rank matrix and tensor approximation. \u00a0 Keywords linear systems, eigenvalue problems, matrix functions Learning Prerequisites Required courses Linear Algebra, Numerical Analysis Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose method for solving a specific problem.Prove the convergence of iterative methods.Interpret the results of a computation in the light of theory.Implement numerical algorithms.Describe methods for solving linear algebra problems.State theoretical properties of numerical algorithms. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture, exercises in the classroom and with computer Expected student activities Attendance of lectures. Completing exercises. Solving problems on the computer. Assessment methods Oral examination."}
{"courseId": "MATH-636", "name": "Additive Combinatorics", "description": "In this course we will study various results from additive combinatorics. This field revolves around combinatorial questions about additive groups, with an emphasis on the integers and finite fields."}
{"courseId": "ME-419", "name": "Production management", "description": "Dynamic behavior & performances of material and information flows, from demand to supply in a manufacturing enterprises. Main concept, methods & tools for demand management, production planning & control and inventory management. Content The manufacturing enterprise as a system; material, information and financial flows; the various production organization types. Demand management: goals, methods, constraints; types of forecasts, mathematical forecasting methods. Production planning and control: levels of planning, production plan, the MRP method, master production scheduling. Inventory management: replenishment methods, statistical determination of the management parameters, optimization and performance criteria. Just in time: objectives, basic principles; KANBAN method, dimensioning of KANBAN systems; functioning conditions and limitations of JIT methods. Keywords Production Management, Operations Management, Inventory Management, JIT Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Basis understanding of statistics (basic courses in probability et statistics) Data analysis using Excel Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose production tools and methods based on performance and cost requirements and needs, taking into consideration applicability limits and associated hypotheses, CP11Model, analyse and optimize the internal logistics of a production and distribution system and the dynamic behaviour of a network of companies, CP12Design a system based on the specifications utilizing suitable tools, CP14 Transversal skills Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Keep appropriate documentation for group meetings.Manage priorities.Take feedback (critique) and respond in an appropriate manner.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Course based on the implementation of theoretical models and concepts to application cases. The students work in the same group on a single application case during the whole semester. 30% presentation of concepts and models, 70% implementation to application case. Assessment methods Continuous evaluation of reports and presentations during the semester. Final exam based on the presentation of the application case and on the understanding of the concepts. Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum Yes Others All information and communication regarding the course through Moodle"}
{"courseId": "MGT-609", "name": "De- and re-regulation of Network Industries", "description": "The Syllabus of the course (including assignments) is available on the below link. Content Note The course is not taught in 2015-2016 Keywords De-regulation, regulation, network industries, privatization, governance"}
{"courseId": "MATH-465", "name": "Packing and covering", "description": "How many objects of a given shape and size can be packed into a large box of fixed volume? We give a systematic introduction into the rich theory that has grown out of the above questions. Connections to number theory, coding theory, potential theory, and robotics will also be presented. Content Geometry of numbers Approximation of convex sets by polygons Packing and covering with congruent convex discs Lattice packing and lattice covering The method of cell decomposition Methos of Blichfeldt and Rogers Efficient ramdom arrangements Keywords Packing Covering Tiling Convexity Random Learning Prerequisites Required courses Linear Algebra Probability Recommended courses Discrete Mathematics of Graph Theory Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze the structure economic arrangements of congruent balls and other bodies in the plane and in the space.Prove the main theorems in the field.Explore how symetric configurations inevitably occur as best solutions of certain problems in geometric optimization.Use basic knowledge of constructions and estimates concerning good approximation of plane convex sets by polygons. Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Lectures and exercise sessions Expected student activities Solution of homework problems and other assignment Assessment methods Oral exam Supervision Office hours Yes Others Office hours Tuesday morning"}
{"courseId": "MSE-490(b)", "name": "Research project in materials II", "description": "The student applies the acquired skills to an academic or industrial projects. Content The students are confronted with the realization of an engineering project integrating several aspects of Materials science. This project will allow them to apply, to concrete problems, skills of domain and transversal skills acquired during their studies. The projects are available on the web sites of IMX laboratories or other laboratories approved by SMX Section. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Manage an individual research prpjectApply the comptences to a specific subjectDesign researchAssess / Evaluate the results criticallyCompose the project in written form in a scientific reportExpound the project in oral form for a scientific audienceDevelop expertise in a specific area of researchPresent data coherently and effectively Transversal skills Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures.Write a literature review which assesses the state of the art.Collect data.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Assess progress against the plan, and adapt the plan as appropriate.Summarize an article or a technical report."}
{"courseId": "CH-453", "name": "Molecular quantum dynamics", "description": "The course covers several exact, approximate, and numerical methods to solve the time-dependent molecular Schr\u00f6dinger equation, and applications including calculations of molecular electronic spectra. More advanced topics include introduction to the semiclassical methods and Feynman path integral. Content 1. Review of classical molecular dynamics. Langrangian and Hamiltonian formalisms, phase space. Classical molecular dynamics and thermodynamics in phase space.2. Exact real-time quantum dynamics.Time-dependent Schr\u00f6dinger's equation. Born-Oppenheimer approximation and potential energy surfaces.Time-correlation functions. Methods of quantum propagation of wave functions. Split operator method and the fast Fourier transform.3. Approximate methods for quantum dynamics.Sudden approximation.Adiabatic approximation.Time-dependant perturbation theory.Fermi's Golden Rule.Time-dependent Hartree method.4. Semiclassical dynamics.Old quantum theory and the WKB approximation.Wigner function.Van Vleck propagator.Semiclassical initial value representation.5. Quantum thermodynamics.Feyman path integral approach- interpreted as imaginary-time dynamics- interpreted as classical thermodynamics of a polymer chain.Path integral Monte Carlo method.Path integral molecular dynamics. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Solve the time-dependent Schr\u00f6dinger equation with a basis method.Derive and apply the sudden and adiabatic approximations.Derive the time-dependent perturbation theory and Fermi's Golden Rule.Apply the time-dependent perturbation theory and Fermi's Golden Rule to molecular transitions induced by electromagnetic field.Expound the connections between the Newtonian, Lagrangian, and Hamiltonian approaches to classical mechanics.Expound how electronic spectra can be computed via the autocorrelation functions.Apply the Fourier and split-operator methods to solve the time-dependent Schr\u00f6dinger equation numerically.Expound the connection between quantum dynamics and quantum thermodynamics and how it can be used to compute molecular quantum thermodynamic properties with the Feynman path integral. Assessment methods Grade: 25% exercises during the semester; 75% oral exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "ME-421", "name": "System Identification", "description": "Some methods are studied for identification of discrete-time linear models using experimental data. The correlation method and spectral analysis are used to identify nonparametric models and the prediction error method to estimate the plant and noise model parameters. Hands-on labs are included. Content Modelling, type of models and representations. Time-domain nonparametric identification methods (impulse response by the correlation aproach). Frequency-domain nonparametric identification methods based on the Fourier and spectral analysis. Parametric identification by linear regression (least squares method, instrumental variables method, recursive algorithms). Prediction error methods (ARX, ARMAX, OE and BJ structures). Practical aspects of identification (input design, order estimation, model validation). Plant model identification in closed-loop operation. Keywords System identification, spectral analysis, correlation approach, prediction error method Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Dynamic systems, Control systems Important concepts to start the course Represent a physical process as a system with its input, outputs and disturbances Analyze a linear dynamical system (both time and frequency response) Represent a linear system by a transfer function (discrete- and continuous-time) Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Identify a dynamic system using experimental data, A8Construct and analyze a discrete-time model for a dynamic system, A7Examine the performance and the solutions and draw conclusions, A26 Transversal skills Write a scientific or technical report.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Set objectives and design an action plan to reach those objectives. Teaching methods Ex-cathedra course with hands-on labs and project Expected student activities Hands-on laboratory for groups of two students, preparing technical reports and a mini project. Assessment methods Oral exam (theoretical and practical questions on project and lab reports) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "FIN-409", "name": "Stochastic calculus II", "description": "This course gives an introduction to fundamental notions and techniques of stochastic calculus in continuous time necessary for applications in finance such as option pricing and hedging. Content Topics include : Ito calculus Stochastic differential equations Martingale representation Girsanov theorem Optimal stochastic control Jump processes Numerical simulation Keywords Ito calculus, diffusion, martingale representation, change of measure, Brownian motion, compound Poisson process Learning Prerequisites Required courses Stochastic calculus I Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain the stochastic integral with respect to a Brownian motionExplain the notion of an Ito processes with finite activity jumps and its quadratic variationApply Ito'\u0080\u0099s formula to multivariate Ito processes with finite activity jumpsCompute the stochastic exponential of an Ito process with finite activity jumpsExplain the notion of a stochastic differential equation, the existence, uniqueness, and Markov property of its solutionApply the Feynman-Kac theorem on the stochastic representation of solutions to partial differential equationsSolve a stochastic differential equation formally, for the linear case, and numerically, for the general caseDerive the HJB equation for some basic stochastic optimal control problemsCompute the optimal strategy for some basic optimal portfolio choice and consumption problems, via the HJB equation and the martingale methodExplain the three pillars of stochastic calculus: Ito's formula, Girsanov'\u0080\u0099s theorem, and the martingale representation theorem Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Lectures, exercises, homework Assessment methods 20% homework 30% midterm exam 50% final exam Midterm and final exams are open book (only lecture notes) Supervision Office hours No Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Bibliography Bj\u00f6rk, T. (2004), \"Arbitrage Theory in Continuous Time\", Oxford University Press Glasserman, P. (2004), \"Monte Carlo Methods in Financial Engineering\", SpringerVerlag Lamberton, D. and Lapeyre, B. (2000), \"Introduction to Stochastic Calculus Applied to Finance\", Chapman&Hall/CRC Oksendal, B. (2007), \"Stochastic Differential Equations. An Introduction with Applications\", Springer Verlag Shreve, S. (2004), \"Stochastic Calculus for Finance II. Continuous-Time Models\", Springer Verlag Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Monte Carlo Methods in Financial Engineering / GlassermanStochastic Differential Equations / \u00d8ksendalArbitrage Theory in Continuous Time / Bj\u00f8rk Introduction to Stochastic Calculus Applied to Finance / LambertonStochastic Calculus for Finance II / Shreve"}
{"courseId": "PHYS-301", "name": "Biophysics I", "description": "In this course we will study the cell (minimum unit of life) and its components. We will study several key cellular features: Membranes, genomes, channels and receptors. We will apply the laws of physics to develop models to make quantitative and predictive statements. Content Introduction to cell biophysics\u00a0 Topics (lectures): 1. Biological membranes: Hydrophobic effect, 2D elasticity (2-4) 2. Molecular events: Ligand binding, ion channel function (5-7) 3. Transport in cellular systems: Diffusive, directed, crowded (8-11) 4. Genomes: 1D elasticity, regulation, transcription, synthetic biology (12-14) Content: 1. Introduction of biological systems and concepts 2. Description of observations and measurements 3. Estimates of relevant numbers / development of quantitative models 4. Exposure to current research articles \u00a0 Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Mathematics and physics courses of the 1st and 2nd years Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Elaborate a model of a biophysical phenomenaDevelop hypotheses to simplify a model of a biophysical phenomenaSolve the mathematics necessary to construct a model of a biophysical phenomenaCritique the results of a model of a biophysical phenomenaApply models to solve problems and applications Teaching methods Ex cathedra and exercises in classrooms Assessment methods Written exam at the end of the semester Supervision Others No"}
{"courseId": "MSE-632", "name": "CCMX Winter School - Nanoparticles: From Fundamentals to Applications in Life Sciences", "description": "Organised as 5 modules, the course addresses nanoparticles production, physico-chemical properties and risk assessment, biological and toxicological effects, in a variety of technological and clinical applications. It offers a skill set relevant to the participants research projects and careers. Content Lectures from featured speakers will take place in the morning sessions. The evenings are planned for the small groups of participants to present their assigned case studies.\u00a0 Keywords Physico-chemical properties,synthesis and surface engineering, interaction of nanoparticles with the biological matrix, with biomolecules, with membranes and cells, nanotoxicological behaviour in animal and human models, medical and imaging applications of nanoparticles Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Master in materials science, chemistry, physics, biology, pharmaceutical sciences or life sciences"}
{"courseId": "CH-602", "name": "Basic principles of drug action at the cardiovascular system", "description": "The aim of this course is two-fold: - to describe the molecular properties of some important drug targets - to illustrate some applications of drugs active at the nervous and cardiovascular systems. Content Basic principles of drug action at the cardiovascular system1) Pharmacology of the cholinergic and adrenergic system2) Molecular pharmacology of G protein-coupled receptors3) Molecular pharmacology of ion channels4) Anti-coagulant and lipid lowering drugs5) Pharmacology of heart failure Note Spring every year (spread dates in March-April)The students need to be present at least during 6 of the 7 two-hour of the class. Keywords drug action"}
{"courseId": "MATH-438", "name": "Commutative algebra", "description": "Commutative algebra studies commutative rings and modules over them, and is vital for a thorough foundation of number theory and algebraic geometry. The course gives an introduction to the subject, highlighting the geometric connections. Content Nilpotent and Jacobson radical Flat modules Localization Primary decomposition Integrally closed rings Chain conditions Noetherian rings Artin rings Dimension of a ring Learning Prerequisites Required courses Linear algebra Th\u00e9orie des groupes Anneaux et coprs Rings and Modules Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: should know and be able to use the basic tools of commutative algebra. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture with exercises"}
{"courseId": "ENV-461", "name": "Sustainability assessment", "description": "This course provides students with the ability to critically reflect on sustainability and perform a sustainability assessment based of problems in urban areas. At the end of the course students are able to develop a own sustainability assessment with the Sustainability Solution Space methodology. Content What is a sustainability assessment? Key sustainability issues in urban areas Systemic, normative, and procedural aspects of sustainability assessments Sustainability and resilience Introduction into developing a sustainability solution space (SSP) Application of SSP problems in urban areas Policy implications of sustainability assessments Keywords Sustainability assessment Problems in urban systems Systemic, normative and procedural aspects of sustainability assessment Sustainability solution space Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Apply the methods relevant for sustainability analysis to a specific problemDistinguish between systemic, normative and procedural aspects of sustainabilityApply the sustainability solution space software to a real world problemDesign a study in which the assessment method can be applied in a meaningful wayAssess / Evaluate a series of options from a sustainability perspective Transversal skills Communicate effectively with professionals from other disciplines.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Identify the different roles that are involved in well-functioning teams and assume different roles, including leadership roles.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Make an oral presentation.Write a scientific or technical report. Teaching methods Lectures, exercises and group presentations, self-defined group work. Inputs from external people are planned. Expected student activities We expect students to attend to the lectures and the exercises offered. The lectures and exercises will be closely interlinked and taught openly within the three hours allocated to the course. They are expected to develop their own case study and perform a sustainability assessment related to problems in the urban or energy systems. Assessment methods The students will be evaluated as follows: Intermediate exam after 5 lectures (25%) Presentation of the case study analyzed (25%) Written report on the case study (50%) Group work (2-3 people) is encouraged Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes"}
{"courseId": "CH-342", "name": "Chemical kinetics", "description": "The course covers the principles of chemical kinetics, including differential rate laws, derivation of exact and approximate integral rate laws for common elementary and composite reactions, fundamentals of collision and transition state theories, and applications such as enzymatic catalysis. Content 1. Definition Nomenclature.\u00a02. Macroscopic aspects of chemical kinetics Variation of reaction rates with concentrations. Variation of reaction rates with temperature. Composite reactions. Introduction to enzyme catalysis. Kinetic aspects of polymerisation.\u00a03. Kinetic theory of gases and molecular beams.\u00a04. Collision theory Bimolecular reactions. Unimolecular reactions.\u00a05. Statistical thermodynamics Distribution of molecular states. Thermodynamic properties.\u00a06. Transition state theory Statistical approach. Thermodynamic formulation. Potential energy surfaces. Extention of transition state theory\u00a07. Reactions rates in solutions Influence of the solvent on reaction rates. Reactions between ions. Diffusion controlled reactions. Influence of solvation on electron transfer reactions. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Express differential rate laws for elementary and composite chemical reactions.Derive and apply integral rate laws for the most common elementary and composite reactions.Apply correctly the steady-state approximation for the rate constant.Derive and apply the rate law for the Michaelis-Menten mechanism of enzymatic catalysis.Compute the thermodynamic properties of a gas from the kinetic theory.Compute the rate constants of unimolecular and bimolecular reactions from the collision theory.Apply the transition state theory to derive a general expression for the rate constant.Use the transition state theory to compute rate constants of elementary reactions. Assessment methods Written midterm exam (25%) Written final exam (75%) Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-557", "name": "Decision-aid methodologies in transportation", "description": "Introduction to operations research algorithms for decision support in transportation systems. Content The course is case-study based, it will be divided into modules associated to concrete case studies. Each module will contain the following parts: 1. Presentation of the problem, outline of the process, analysis of major difficulties. 2. Formulation of the optimization problem. 3. Introduction to optimization methods. 4. Implementation using software tools. 5. Solution of a concrete problem by the lecturer, using real data. 6. Solution of similar problems by the students, using also real data. \u00a0 Emphasis will be put on enhancing students' abilities to model and implement decision support methods in transportation systems. During the course the students would be introduced to the Julia programming language and to the JuMP modeling language for mathematical optimization (embedded in Julia). Programming skills are not a prerequisite, but note that most of the exercises would require programming abilities at the level taught during the exercise. Learning Prerequisites Required courses Recherche op\u00e9rationnelle Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Model decision processes in transportation systems as optimization problems.Implement and sold optimization problems using state-of-the-art solvers.Know aand understand various optimization approaches. Assessment methods Work in the exercise will be done in groups. At the end of each module, each group would be required to submit a short report on the exercise. At the last part of the course, each group of students would be assigned with a final project, in which they will be required to implement approaches learned during the course. Each group would submit a report and present their project at the end of the course. Assessment would be based on the quality of the report, the quality of the presentation and an oral exam that would take place during the presentation.\u00a0"}
{"courseId": "ENV-167", "name": "Introduction to environmental engineering", "description": "This introduction to Enviromental Engineering is meant to show the students how upcoming courses in mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology and other areas will be used to gain a scientific understanding of environmental problems and then help to solve them. Content Topics covered include (among other topics) environmental engineering concepts, water quality and treatment, risk analysis and management, forecasting, groundwater management and remediation, resource use, energy production, air pollution, and climate change. Keywords Water pollution, wastewater treatment, groundwater pollution, remediation, wells, exponential growth, logistic model, water resources, air pollution, greenhouse gases, climate change Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Basic knowledge (high school level) in mathematics, physics, chemistry and biology Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Identify correct and wrong statements and argue whySolve simple problems on water pollution and wastewater treatmentDescribe steady groundwater flow using Darcy's LawRecognize different mechanisms controlling fate of contaminants in groundwaterDerive rates of change in environmental and human systemsExplain the physical and chemical processes that govern natural and human-induced climate changeRecognize important chemical actors in air pollution and their environmental impacts Teaching methods Lecture ex cathedra and exercises Expected student activities (i) prepare the lectures by reading the parts of the textbook indicated on Moodle, (ii) work on the problems before coming to the exercice sessions Assessment methods Three written tests during the semester, each lasting\u00a090 min."}
{"courseId": "MGT-413(a)", "name": "Entrepreneurship & new venture strategy (a)", "description": "This class is the foundation course in entrepreneurial management. The purpose of this course is to explore new venture creation by adopting a process perspective - from opportunity recognition to establishing a successful new firm. Content Introduction to Entrepreneurship Opportunity Identification / Sources of Innovation Entry Strategy, Competitive Advantage and Uncertainty Business Models Entrepreneurial Marketing and Technology Commercialization Discovery Driven Planning / Basics of business planning Issues in Building a New Venture Team / Growth and Scalability of Organizations Raising capital / Financing new ventures Harvesting the Rewards / Dealing with Failure Keywords Entrepreneurship, New Firms, Technology Commercialization Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Plan a new ventureAssess / Evaluate market demand for innovative goodsInvestigate different business opportunitiesAnalyze data pertaining to the new businessManage team of studentsAssess / Evaluate value creation potential of new offerings Transversal skills Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Make an oral presentation. Teaching methods Case studies Group discussions Lectures Business case presentations Guest speakers (entrepreneurs) Assessment methods Continuous assessment combining: 45% Business Plan proposal25% Participation 30% Assignments Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No Others Office hours upon request"}
{"courseId": "ME-460", "name": "Renewable energy (for ME)", "description": "The students assess and compare all renewable energy resources, their real potentials, their limitations and their best applications (energy services). Solar thermal, solar electric, wood, bioliquids, biogas, hydropower incl. tidal and wave power, wind, geothermal incl. heat pumps and buildings. Content Overview of renewable energy vectors, their physical principles and essential equations, their operation technologies, technical details, challenges, applications and potential for supply of heat, transport and electrical services. Solar (photovoltaics and thermal - collectors/concentrators), biomass (a.o. gasification), biogases, liquid biofuels, hydro-electricity, geo-energy (electrical and thermal), wind; hydrogen (as intermediate energy vector). Keywords Renewable electricity / heat / transport; efficiency Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Master the concepts of mass, energy, and momentum balance, E1Understand the main thermodynamic cycles, E5 Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain and apply the concepts of thermodynamic efficiency, E6Explain the principles and limitations of the main energy conversion technologies, E7Characterize fossil and renewable energy resources and their corresponding conversion technologies, E8Understand the challenges related to energy: resources, energy services, economic and environmental impacts, E9Calculate and design hydraulic machines, E12Calculate and design solar collectors and receivers, E17Calculate and design wind power plants, E18 Transversal skills Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion.Take responsibility for environmental impacts of her/ his actions and decisions.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information.Collect data.Demonstrate the capacity for critical thinking Teaching methods Modules of 2 h interactive lectures completed with1 h of practical numerical examples Assessment methods Written exam"}
{"courseId": "CH-431", "name": "Physical and computational organic chemistry", "description": "This course introduces computational electronic structure methods and their broad applications to organic chemistry. It also discusses physical organic concepts to illustrate the stability and reactivity of organic molecules. Content \u00a0\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Computational Methods Electronic structure approaches for organic chemistry Overview of density functional theory and post-Hartree-Fock methods Fundamentals of physical organic chemistry Thermodynamic stabilities Stabilizing effects Computation of reaction mechanisms Radicals, diradicals, carbenes and spin multiplicity Kinetic isotope effects (Organic reactions dynamics) Special topic in physical organic chemistry Aromaticity Carbocation Molecular Strain Selected article for presentation \u00a0 Keywords Computational organic chemistry, chemical concepts Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose an appropriate computational method to address a given chemistry problemEstimate the uncertainties associated with the use of a given computational approachAssess / Evaluate the (de)stabilizing effects of a moleculeElaborate orbital energy diagrammesInterpret the forbidden/allowed nature of a chemical reactionSpecify the type of kinetic isotope effectsIdentify the main message of an article Transversal skills Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures. Expected student activities resolve the weekly mini-quiz and the two maxi-quiz read, understand and present a scientific article\u00a0 Assessment methods 1/3 pr\u00e9sentation; 2/3 oral exam"}
{"courseId": "MICRO-513", "name": "Signal processing for functional brain imaging", "description": "MICRO-513 is an interdisciplinary course at the interface of neuroscience, psychology, engineering, and statistics. Students will learn mathematical and statistical processing tools in the context of analyzing human brain imaging data. Content Human brain imaging (MRI, fMRI EEG) allows non-invasive investigation of the human brain in health and disease. \u00a0Data sets are large and noisy and their analysis depends on an array of mathematical and signal processing tools. \u00a0Students will learn to implement general tools including linear regression (mass univariate models), multivariate models (principal components analysis, partial least squares, independent component analysis), pattern recognition (machine learning), and graphical models. Lab exercises and Matlab exercises allow analysis of real brain imaging data. A journal club emphasizes application of brain imaging tools in fundamental and clinical neuroscience. Students will read, present and critique original research papers. Keywords neuroimaging, functional MRI, EEG, brain mapping Learning Prerequisites Important concepts to start the course Mathematics at the engineering level (i.e., matrix algebra, probability theory) Basic signal processing concepts Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explore clinical and cognitive neurosciencePropose a brain imaging experimentDesign data analysis methodChoose among signal processing toolsImplement signal processing toolsAssess / Evaluate statistical significanceCritique original research papersStructure a scientific presentation Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Make an oral presentation.Give feedback (critique) in an appropriate fashion. Teaching methods lectures, lab exercises for analysis of real brain imaging data sets, homework exercises for understanding and implementation of specific tools, journal club for exploring applications of brain imaging in fundamental and clinical neuroscience, journal club presentations for synthesis and critique of original research as well as practice of presentation skills. Expected student activities attendance at lectures and exercises. one journal club. Assessment methods written exam."}
{"courseId": "CS-472", "name": "Design technologies for integrated systems", "description": "Hardware compilation is the process of transforming specialized hardware description languages into circuit descriptions, which are iteratively refined, detailed and optimized. The course presents algorithms, tools and methods for hardware compilation and logic synthesis. Content The course will present the most outstanding features of hardware compilation, as well as the techniques for optimizing logic representations and networks. The course gives a novel, uptodate view of digital circuit design. Practical sessions will teach students the use of current design tools.Syllabus1) Modeling languages and specification formalisms;2) High-level synthesis and optimization methods (scheduling, binding, data-path and control synthesis);3) Representation and optimization of combinational logic functions (encoding problems, binary decision diagrams);4) Representation and optimization of multiple-level networks (algebraic and Boolean methods, \"don't care\" set computation, timing verification and optimization);5) Modeling and optimization of sequential functions and networks (retiming);6) Semicustom libraries and library binding. Keywords Hardware, VLSI, Synthesis, Optimization, Algorithms Learning Prerequisites Required courses No specific course Recommended courses Knowledge of digital design, algorithm design and programming. Important concepts to start the course Knowledge of digital design, algorithm design and programming. Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Recognize important problems in digital designExamine and evaluate available design tools and methodsDecide upon a design tool flow to perform a digital design Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources. Assessment methods Continuous control :Homework : 30 %, Project 15 %, Midterm test : 20 %, End term test : 35 %"}
{"courseId": "CIVIL-369", "name": "Structural stability", "description": "Advanced topics in structural stability. Static and dynamic loads; elastic & inelastic buckling of columns; beam-columns; lateral-torsional buckling; nonlinear geometric effects; structural stability in the design codes; case studies include real-world applications of stability theory. Content Week 1: Introduction and background Week 2: External work and principle of virtual work-principle of stationary total potential energy Week 3: Fundamentals of stability theory: Post-buckling behaviour, softerning Week 4: Euler and virtual work method Week 5: Snap-through buckling, elastic buckling of planar columns Week 6: Large deflection theory Week 7: Differential equations of planar flexure , pin-ended columns\u00a0 Week 8: Material nonlinearity, Inelastic column buckling, Stability of frames Week 9: Boundary conditions for bracing structures\u00a0 Week 10: Beam-column stability, behaviour of beam-columns, elastic limit interaction relationships Week 11: Lateral torsional and flexural buckling Week 12: Effect of boundary conditions on flexural and lateral torsional buckling Week 13: Applications of stability in steel design and design codes Week 14: Examples and failures from real-world applications Keywords structural stability, static & dynamic loading, flexural and lateral-torsional buckling, nonlinear behaviour, frame stability Learning Prerequisites Required courses Statics, structural analysis, mechanics of materials Recommended courses Design of steel structures Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Develop insights into the working of structural analysis and stability from first principlesAssess / Evaluate the stability of structural components, frames under various types of loadingModel nonlinear geometric effects in basic structural components and frame structures Transversal skills Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions.Use a work methodology appropriate to the task.Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Communicate effectively, being understood, including across different languages and cultures. Teaching methods 2-hour lecture, 1-hour exercices Use of: Powerpoint Online lecture recording system to facilitate learning Tools to facilitate learning of stability theory in-class exercises Expected student activities Class participation, in-class exercise solutions Assessment methods 1. Midterm written exam, 2. Final written exam Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Others The course lectures will be provided online 3-hours after the end of each class. Resources Bibliography Ziemian, R.D. Guide to stability design criteria for metal structures (sixth edition) Bazant, Z., and Cedolin, L. Stability of structures Chen, WF., Lui, EM. Structural stability: Theory and Implementation Eurocodes Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Guide to stability design criteria for metal structures / Ziemian R.D.Stability of structures / Bazant Z., Cedolin, L.Eurocodes Notes/Handbook -The course lectures, list of in-class exercise problems and midterm/final exams are based on lecture notes that are provided weekly through Moodle. -The course does not follow a specific Handbook."}
{"courseId": "ENG-802", "name": "Translational Robotics for Clinical Rehabilitation", "description": "During this summer school, participants will discover novel robotics assessment technologies and adaptive therapies including robot-assisted rehabilitation for different types of impairments, and will get clinical guidelines to design innovative robotic rehabiliation devices. Content The TRCR Summer School aims to strengthen the collaboration between engineers and clinicians for the development of novel technological tools and therapeutic plans that are able to answer patients' and clinicians' needs and improve their quality of life. Engineers and clinicians need to develop a common language and work side by side from the very early stages of the design of new technological tools all the way to their application in clinical settings. Bridging the technical knowledge with medical knowledge would allow to explore new solutions in technology-assisted rehabilitation. The school will focus on three complementary topics, each of which will be examined both from the clinical and the engineering perspective: T1.\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Clinical and robotic assessments: two complementary domains.Robotic devices could potentially provide quantitative and objective information on the patient's performance. However, robotic assessments are still at an infant stage and it is not clear how their outcomes should be interpreted to describe the patient's status and adapt the therapy to the individual. In this topic, we focus on how the currently available and well established clinical measures can take advantage of robots to gain accuracy and repeatability. T2.\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 From assessment to therapy: shaping a personalized therapy planConventional physical therapy and existing technological devices enable diversified therapeutic approaches. Nevertheless, this opportunity is often not fully exploited as it is not clear which are the therapy parameters (e.g., intensity, type of task) that maximize the recovery of the individual patient based on relevant clinical information. Clinicians and engineers should decide how to combine traditional physical therapy and technology to generate novel therapy plans. T3.\u00a0\u00a0\u00a0 Patient/therapist-oriented design of robots for rehabilitation and assistanceRobotic therapy and assistance involve physical interaction between the patient and the robot, and must thus consider both human factors, as well as adapted mechanical designs, actuation and advanced interaction control. Developments should be driven by clinical needs, and address the specific impairments of the individual patient. Note This summer school is jointly organized with ETHZ PhD students. Keywords Robotics, Rehabilitation, Assistance, Clinical Assessments."}
{"courseId": "EE-445", "name": "Microwaves", "description": "This course is n introduction to microwaves and microwave passive circuits. A special attention is given to the introduction of the notion of distributed circuits and to the scattering matrix Content Introduction: Definition of the basic notions, applications: radar, communications, satellites, space probes, microwave ovens, atomic clocks, biological effects Microwave networks: S-parameters and scattering matrix Microwave circuits: Description of devices with 1, 2, 3 and 4 ports. Ferrite devices: The gyromagnetic effect, isolators, circulators, switches, llimiters, component insertion, filters Device and signal measurements: Basic principles, reflectometry, vector network analyzer, attenuation and phaseshift, TDR. Calibration for error compensation and deembedding. Measurement of frequency and power. Keywords microwaves, S-parameters, passive devices Learning Prerequisites Recommended courses Electromagnetics Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Analyze Microwave circuitsCreate Microwave componentsFormalize S-parameter model Transversal skills Use a work methodology appropriate to the task. Teaching methods Ex cathedra with demonstrations and exercises Assessment methods With mandatory continuous control Resources Bibliography Handouts Websites http://lema.epfl.ch/content/view/25/51/"}
{"courseId": "MATH-461", "name": "Convexity", "description": "Convexity is fundamental concept in mathematics. This course is an introduction to convexity and its ramifications in high-dimensional Geometry. Content Convex sets, basic notions John's Theorem Lattices and Minkowski's Theorem Dual lattices and transferrence bounds The Brunn-Minkowski Inequality Measure concentration Metric embeddings The Johnson-Lindenstrauss Lemma \u00a0 Keywords Convexity Polyhedron Lattice Geometry Learning Prerequisites Required courses Analyjsis 1 2 Linear Algebra 1 2 Recommended courses Discrete Optimization Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Choose an appropriate method for solving a problem in convex geometryProve theorems in convexityDesign methods to solve problems Transversal skills Demonstrate a capacity for creativity.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Continue to work through difficulties or initial failure to find optimal solutions. Teaching methods Ex cathedra lecture, exercises at home and in the classroom. \u00a0 Expected student activities Attendance of lectures and exercises Completion of exercises at home Study of literature Assessment methods Written exam during exam session Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No"}
{"courseId": "FIN-401", "name": "Introduction to finance (IF master and minor only)", "description": "The course provides a market-oriented framework for analyzing the major types of financial decisions made by firms. It provides an introduction to present value techniques, capital budgeting, asset valuation, the operation and efficiency of financial markets, and other financial decisions of firms. Content 1. Introduction to finance 2. Arbitrage, discounting, and the term structure of interest rates 3. Introduction to the valuation of bonds and stocks 4. Risk and return 5. Capital Budgeting 6. Capital Structure Decisions 7. Financial derivatives 8. Risk management Keywords Corporate Finance, Valuation, Arbitrage Pricing, Risk Management Learning Prerequisites Required courses None Recommended courses None Learning Outcomes By the end of the course, the student must be able to: Explain standard valuations models used in financial marketsRecall the trade-off between risk and return and develop an ability to make portfolio decisionsDevelop an ability to analyze and evaluate firms and investment projectsState the determinants of financing decisions for firms and investment projectsDescribe derivatives markets and their benefits and costs Transversal skills Plan and carry out activities in a way which makes optimal use of available time and other resources.Assess one's own level of skill acquisition, and plan their on-going learning goals.Access and evaluate appropriate sources of information. Teaching methods Lectures, homework, exercises, case studies Expected student activities attendance at lectures, handing in homeworks, completing case studies, class participation Assessment methods 35% Homework25% Midterm exam40% Final exam\u00a0Homework is open book. Final exam is closed-book. Supervision Office hours Yes Assistants Yes Forum No Resources Bibliography Berk and DeMarzo, Corporate Finance, Pearson, 2007. Ressources en biblioth\u00e8que Corporate Finance / Berk Notes/Handbook Lecture notes for each class will be available via moodle."}
{"courseId": "BIO-666", "name": "Practical - Blokesch Lab", "description": "How to look at tiny things: visualizing protein localization in bacteria using epifluorescence microscopy. Content Theory:Basics on protein localization in bacteria. Practical part:Preparing bacteria for microscopy.Staining methods to visualize bacteria.Epifluorescence microscopy.Comparison of protein localization depending on protein levels (varying artifical induction).Basic image analysis (MicrobeTracker).Independent analysis of an unknown bacterium for cell shape and potential localized fluorescently labeled proteins. Note Note that while the course is open to all first year EPFL doctoral students, priority will be given to EDMS students, given that they are mandated to take three of EDMS practical modules. Doctoral students from the Blokesch laboratory cannot take this course. Minimum 2 students, max. 4 students."}
{"courseId": "MATH-611", "name": "Scientific programming for Engineers", "description": "The students will acquire a solid knowledge on the processes necessary to design, write and use scientific software, including the analysis of results. Modeling aspects, which constrain software design, will lead the students to algorithmic and complexity concepts inherent to all numerical calculati Content Programming techniques, code factorization Pointers, memory management, data structures Linear system solving (LAPACK/MUMPS) Numerical error and convergence analysis Object Oriented Paradigm C/C programming (class, operator, template) Python/MatPlotLib Paraview Classical problems: series calculations, Mandelbrot fractal, signal filtering (audio and image), Fourier transform, sparse linear system, conjugate gradient optimization, heat propagation, mass spring model, wave propagation and dispersion relations. Keywords programming, scientific, code design, algorithm, optimization, analysis"}
